Durban - The KZN Growth Fund Trust (KGFT) is allegedly haemorrhaging hundreds of millions of rand because of incompetence, nepotism and maladministration. This came to light after a forensic investigation conducted by advisory firm HTB Consulting into the affairs of the fund. The probe revealed that irregular loans amounting to R40 million were awarded to Durban-based automotive manufacturer Microfinish without providing proper documentation. The company also did not meet all the required checks and balances when securing the loan facility from the fund. The KGFT is meant to champion business development in the province. The Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs is the primary shareholder of the trust. According to the HTB report, Microfinish owner Brian Naidoo used the money to provide “loans” to various other companies he owns and to his son, Deshan Naidoo. The Pinetown-based Microfinish, a manufacturer of valvetrains, applied for funding from the trust. It then provided funding on two separate occasions, which totalled R39 million, which was to be used for capital projects and operational expenditure. Six million rand was disbursed in the 2017/18 financial year to Microfinish. To help Microfinish survive, the KGFT agreed to a new approach to buy property that Microfinish was doing its business from. The property was owned by PA Pearson which was owned by Naidoo. The aim of this was to relieve the company from the financial distress. This idea was soon abandoned by the KGFT as there were doubts that the purchase was even within the mandate of the trust. But by this time an amount of R5 990 000 had already been disbursed to Microfinish. “At the time of these transfers, no formal written agreement was entered into between KGFT and Microfinish in respect of these funds... As a result, at the time KGFT entered into a written agreement with Microfinish regarding these funds, the funds were already depleted. The action by KGFT to make the funds (to the value of R6m) available to Microfinish without a formal agree ment presented a high-risk exposure to KGFT. The persons responsible for this occurrence may have acted negligently,” the report said. The report stated that the ailing Microfinish provided loans to three companies that were related to it. These companies were mainly Anjunex, which was owned by Deshan Naidoo, Brian Naidoo’s son; PA Pearson, which was owned by Brian Naidoo and Cherokee Rose, which was also owned by Brian Naidoo. These loans totalled R4 636 939. These loans were unsecured, interest free and had no fixed terms of repayment, the report said. The report made a number of recommendations, some of which say that no payments are to be made to a borrower before a formal written and binding agreement is sealed. In response to questions sent to them, Deshan and Brian Naidoo said: “Microfinish is aware of a report undertaken by HTB Consulting, although despite countless requests to KGFT, Mr Naidoo has not had sight of it. Furthermore, as the report is governed by various NDAs, there has clearly been a breach of confidentiality. The businesses in question are private entities and, as such, there is no obligation to disclose information relating to contractual agreements, remuneration, loans or any other related matters.” A source within the KGFT who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals said: “There’s a lack of accountability. Senior management who assessed and approved transactions of the non-performing investments are not held accountable.” According to the source, another company, INSA, which is implicated inthe maladministration, is facing liquidation. INSA is a manufacturer of stainless steel cookware. Last week was the closing date for the tenders for the purchase of the assets of INSA and tenders for these assets opened on October 23, with the last day being November 12. According to the documents, the human resources manager of KGFT, Nontobeko Ndlovu-Machi, is related to, or is close to, one of the senior executives at INSA. In addition, in late 2018 the trust followed up funding to the tune of R34 million, of which R12 million had to be returned by INSA. Information shows that plant commissioning for INSA was completed in September last year and the next month a business rescue practitioner was appointed. “In November 2019 the business was placed under business rescue. Management is alleged to have not been honest with regards to the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) equity fund,” reads the report. According to documents made available to the Daily News last week, the PIC committed R300 million to the trust, with R300m ring-fenced to make the total funding of R600m. According to the source, R110m of this equity will not be recovered since INSA has been liquidated. KGFT chief executive Lwazi Zondi said that a summons had beenserved and the Microfinish matter was at present in court. Zondi said that the INSA project was currently in court for the liquidation process and he was unable to state the amount of losses to be incurred until this process was completed. On the other hand, concerned employees of the trust wrote to then Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Nomusa Dube- Ncube in March, April and May in relation to grievances of nepotism and ill-qualified senior executives who lack experience and qualifications. In June, Dube-Ncube replied that she had appointed chairperson of the Trade and Investment Fund Ina Cronje to investigate the alleged irregularities as outlined by the employees. Daily News