Durban – Illegal electricity connections crossing a river near the Jika Joe informal settlement in Pietermaritzburg claimed the lives of three friends, aged 6 and 8, on Saturday. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said an inquest was being investigated. “It is alleged that at noon, three children aged between six and eight were electrocuted at the Jika Joe informal settlement,” said Gwala. Zanokuhle Dlamini, 6, was one of the children and the youngest of the trio. His grandmother, Ntombizodwa Dlamini, 65, said she fainted on learning of the death of her grandson. Dlamini said the children usually played near the river but their parents would call them back because the area had illegal connections. “On Saturday, they (children) went there. Their parents looked for them and did not see them because they had already been killed by the illegal connection in the water,” said Dlamini. She said Zanokuhle was in Grade R and was a joyful and playful child. Khanyisile Jili, 62, said her family was broken over what happened to her grandson, Kuhlebuyeza Jili, 8. “My grandson never went near the river, he always played near the houses. It was his first time going towards the river,” said Jili. She said Kuhlebuyeza was a good boy and loved by people in the community. He was in Grade 2 and did well in school. Sindy Fakude, 33, said they had nothing and did not know how they would bury her nephew Lonwabo Dewa, 8. Fakude said they wished to bury him in Matatiele where the rest of their family was. She said they were hurt over Lonwabo’s death. “We lost everything in a fire in September,” said Fakude. She said Lonwabo was in Grade 2 and was a good boy and very clever. Ward councillor Suraya Reddy said the children had come across a live wire running across the river. They touched it and died instantly. Reddy said she was shocked when she heard the news because not long ago, the families had been moved from a hall after they were affected by a fire almost six weeks ago. They were handed materials and built on the floodplain. Then they were affected by floods a week ago. “I had just handed new pairs of school shoes to the same children for the New Year,” said Reddy. IOL