The Community Policing Forum in Wentworth has called on national and provincial police top brass to come to the aid of the area plagued with gang drive-by shootings and drug-dealing. This was after police foiled a planned drive-by shooting by the Hollywood gang on its rival, the Cartel, on Friday. However, the would-be shooters fled after spotting police, ditching a firearm and ammunition. It is believed the firearm is state-owned. However, police are awaiting ballistics before confirming this. CPF chairperson Donavan Anderson said before police thwarted the drive-by shooting on Friday night, a young man was shot four times in the afternoon. “He was shot by an unknown male. He was rushed to hospital and is still alive. We need constant policing in Wentworth, not just assistance when needed, because shootings happen at random now. What the police station needs is its full complement of police. Many have been seconded to other stations and some are sick, so we are understaffed and can't cope really. National and province must come to our aid,“ he said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said police could not confirm the tossed gun was a state one without it having been sent to experts. "Because the serial number is filed off, it has to be taken to experts who can dig deeper. We can’t confirm that it's a state gun just from looking at it. It will be taken for ballistics," she said. Mbele explained a multi-disciplinary operation was carried out by police officers from the provincial organised crime unit, provincial drug and firearms unit, Umlazi K9, public order police as well as metro police after intelligence of a planned drive-by shooting of a gang by their rivals was received. “Police proceeded to the meeting spot on Woodville Road. The men spotted police and fled in different directions. Police gave chase and found a pistol with ammunition as well as 70 heroin tablets. Police are continuing to monitor the area to prevent criminal activities," she said. Mbele added a 30-year-old man was expected to appear in the Wentworth Magistrate's Court soon for dealing in drugs. She said the man was arrested on Thursday prior to Friday's operation. “He was found in between the apartments on Major Calvert Street selling heroin tablets. He was arrested and charged with dealing in drugs. Police recovered heroin tablets and cash received from the drug trade.” Area councillor Aubrey Snyman said it was pleasing to know police were becoming more pro-active by getting involved and making arrests relating to the sale of drugs and drive-by shootings that happened nearly every day. "We are  desperately in need of more policing in our community in order to curb this unacceptable behaviour where innocent people are having to run for cover and are constantly traumatised, living in fear of their lives. Our community calls for peace, calm and unity. Families are sick and tired of burying their young loved ones that have gone too soon, leaving small children behind to fend for themselves. It's about time that more police are deployed in our community to prevent these drive-by shootings and selling of drugs from taking place,“ he said. Snyman said offenders committing these crimes had to face the full might of law. “Nobody is above the law and it's our constitutional right to live in peace and harmony." Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula commended the police officers for their persistence to maintain peace in that area. Daily News