This weeks mark's the beginning of the campaign 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Child abuse. The campaign begins on International Day of No Violence Against Women on Wednesday and culminates with International Human Rights Day on December 10. The campaign comes on the back of the sentencing of Pinetown serial rapist, Tumelo Khiba. Pinetown Magistrate Queen Khuzwayo this month sentenced Khiba to six life terms and 35 years for 16 counts of rape. Khiba, 25, used the same modus operandi from 2016 to 2017 when he was arrested. "He lured his victims from the Pinetown CBD promising them casual jobs. He targeted women between the ages of 17 and 23," said Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele. The Department of Social Development has called on all victims of gender-based violence to be in contact with social workers in a bid to assist with their cases. Spokesperson Mhlaba Memela said the department had existing programmes to assist victims of gender-based violence. "With growing concerns over a spike in gender-based violence, its pleasing to see the SAPS investigations able to secure convictions. We want to see police continue investigating and secure more convictions. Women need to be vigilant at all the time as the criminals continue to take advantage of them". At the time of the trial the investigating officer Warrant Officer Sihle Ntuli told the court that in October 2016 Khiba raped a 17- year old who was a high school pupil at the time. "She had been on Hill Street in Pinetown when the accused allegedly approached her using the name Sihle and befriended the teen who then told him she was on her way to Home Affairs but did not know where it was. Khiba offered to show her but said he had to take money to his mother who worked nearby," Ntuli told the court. In aggravation of sentence, State prosecutor Simphiwe Dube argued for the harshest sentence, adding that had Khiba not been caught and arrested he would have continued. In May one of his victims told the Daily News she still feared being in Pinetown alone. She had just written her final Grade 12 exam when he raped her. "He held my neck with his arm and forced me to take off my leggings...He raped me without a condom," she said at the time. Khiba's last attack, on January 17, 2017, led to arrest at a taxi rank in the Pinetown CBD when he stole his victim's shoes. When the woman reported the rape case at the local police station, the police drove her around the CBD, hoping she would spot him. She pointed out Khiba who was apparently wearing her shoes. Daily News