Durban - TRIBUTES have been pouring in for Satish Dhupelia, who died in hospital on Sunday afternoon. Three days earlier he had celebrated his 66th birthday. His maternal grandfather, Manilal, was the second son of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Kasturba Gandhi. When Gandhi left South Africa to return to India, Manilal stayed behind to continue his father's work. Sita was one of Manilal’s children. She married Shashikant and the couple had three children, Satish being one of them. Dhupelia, who lived in Sydenham, was a trustee of the Phoenix Settlement that his great-grandfather started and a management committee member of the Gandhi Development Trust, started by his aunt Ela Gandhi. Years ago, Dhupelia worked as a teacher but subsequently turned to videography. He was involved in several community organisations, including the Sydenham Community Police Forum (CPF), the Durban Amphitheatre Market Committee, the Clare Estate Hindu Crematorium and the 1860 Heritage Centre. Uma Dhupelia-Mesthrie, his sister, said Dhupelia had suffered from pulmonary fibrosis for many years and three weeks ago he contracted pneumonia, which led to him being hospitalised. She said he was discharged last week but readmitted after he picked up a superbug while at the hospital. “During this second visit, he picked up Covid-19. He was being treated for Covid-19 and died of a massive heart attack.” Dhupelia-Mesthrie said her brother believed in helping people in need. “He took the lead in running the Gandhi Outreach Programme by supplying hampers to informal settlements and the poor. He believed in getting to know those whom he helped. As a result, car guards in Sydenham knew Satish well as he often gave them cash and food. “They knew him by name and he knew their names as well as their life stories. He was also known to pick up lost and wounded animals and take them to shelters and veterinary clinics. While others talk and write about Gandhi’s teachings, Satish lived his great-grandfather’s message.” Ela Gandhi said Dhupelia’s wit would be remembered by his family and friends. “He was a warm, compassionate and caring person. Whatever he did, he always put his heart and soul into it.” AV Mohammed, the chairperson at the Grey Street mosque and Dhupelia’s long-time friend, said: “He was the most caring, kindest and selfless person I had come across. Our friendship started 40 years ago. I would often meet him at the weddings that he was videoing and whenever he saw me, he would say ‘Hello uncle AV’. From there we bonded and our friendship grew closer. “Satish was always the first one ready to assist whenever people were in trouble. He called me plenty of times and asked for food and water when the informal settlements were affected by floods or fires.” Salisha Maharaj, who referred to Dhupelia as “Dups”, said: “I met Dups through my dad and we became friends together with the late Manoj Lakhani. From making movies to assisting him with advert shoots, and quirky, witty chats, Dups became more like family, an elder brother and confidante. Back in the day, he used to host family New Year’s dinners and celebrations and never left me out.” Her father, Satish Maharaj, a Hindu priest, said: “Like his great-grandfather, he lived to serve people. We have lost a gem.” Manser Akoo, chairperson of the Clare Estate CPF and long-time friend, said: “We spoke during the week. I also sent him messages of strength and believed that my friend would be well. I was shocked when I found out that he had died. I still find it difficult to accept. “Satish will be remembered as a selfless fighter for a better life for all. He was a sincere individual who went the extra mile for fellow mankind. He was a true champion for all those who were voiceless, a people’s person, a gentleman, a family figure and a dear friend. “During religious festivities such as Diwali, Christmas or Eid, and many other busy periods, he arranged for hamper drives and feeding schemes in Clare Estate and surrounding areas. His death is a loss to mankind and to all those who had the privilege of knowing him.” Dhupelia was cremated at the Clare Estate Crematorium on Monday. He is survived by his children, Misha, Shashika and Kabir. POST