Durban - The SPCA in Durban was able to find homes for 79 cats and dogs in July. Durban & Coast SPCA marketing manager Tanya Fleischer said they were able to re-home 79 cats and dogs in July. “During July alone, these 79 cats and dogs were re-homed by our SPCA,” said Fleischer. The 79 cats and dogs were previously unwanted, stray, abandoned or abused and now they had loving families. If someone would like to adopt they need to call and make an appointment - 031 579 6524. Meanwhile, the eThekwini Municipality has urged residents to vaccinate pets. The eThekwini Municipality Environmental Health Unit in partnership with the provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Development have embarked on a rabies vaccination campaign in uMlazi and surrounding areas. The rabies vaccination campaign is aimed at alerting people about the risks of rabies and the importance of getting their pets vaccinated to prevent rabies outbreak. “Currently, the campaign is based in uMlazi following a discovery of positive (rabies) cases in the area,” the city said. The awareness and vaccination drive resumed this week and will go on until the end of September. The city said vaccinations are free and residents are encouraged to take their cats and dogs for vaccination in various areas in uMlazi. Alternatively, they can take their pets for free vaccination at SPCA in Amanzimtoti and Kloof. “Pet owners must bring their animal’s certificate from the previous vaccination but if they do not have one, it will be issued,” the city said. UMlazi Rabies Vaccination Programme Plan: August 21 UMlazi Y section (Ezimbokodweni Primary School) UMlazi Y section (Faith Mission Church) – Eshashalazini September 7 UMlazi Malukazi (Emakhehleni) UMlazi Malukazi (Second Venue to be confirmed) UMlazi U section Esipingo Primary Grounds UMlazi U section (Council’s Office) September 8 UMlazi Q section (B.P Garage) UMlazi P section (Sizwakele Primary School) UMlazi Q section (Ezitolo) UMlazi P section (Ezitolo) For more information pet owners can contact 031 902 6253 or 031 311 3555 Daily News