Durban - THE provincial Health Portfolio Committee has called for the revival of the Traditional Health Practitioners’ Council, whose term lapsed in 2019 During a virtual stakeholder engagement on Wednesday, representatives from both the Department of Health and traditional healing voiced their disappointment with the delays in appointing a new council. Committee member Linda Hlongwa said she was unhappy with the department’s perspective on integrated health services. “We must preserve what’s African for the sake of our tradition. “We need to cement the relationship between traditional healers and the department. “What prescripts are available in law that state what one particular healer is capable of dealing with and where are they operating from? “If our researcher could look into recent information you’d be flabbergasted by negative reporting on traditional healing,” Hlongwa said. The council was established by Parliament and it gives traditional health practitioners registered with it the authority to issue medical certificates in line with the provisions of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, among other competencies. Vukani Khoza, the department’s African Traditional Medicine director, said about 80% of people still relied on African traditional medicine, while some used both western and traditional medicine. Khoza said the sector needed to be institutionalised, and that traditional practitioners were not happy that the department wanted them to refer patients to health-care facilities, yet western medicine practitioners were not doing the same. Some committee members have called for traditional healers to be part of the health portfolio committee. Portfolio committee chairperson Nomakiki Majola said: “We discovered that traditional healers as stakeholders in the health-care system were left outside regarding Covid-19. Our next step from this stakeholders’ meeting will be to revive the Traditional Health Practitioners’ Council as its time had lapsed, to enable them to operate as an institution and be part of the health-care system. “Traditional healers must be registered with the council just like other health-care practitioners who are registered with their respective councils.” The previous council’s time lapsed last year, with no indication of when it would be, or should be, re-elected. Sazi Mhlongo, the former deputy chairperson of the last council, blamed individuals with selfish motives for the delays in the renewal of the council. Daily News