Durban - Authorities are pleading with Durbanites to practice extreme caution this week as the number of Covid-19 infections are expected to peak in the city in the coming days. With 99 386 positive cases in KwaZulu-Natal and 1 420 deaths as of Monday, the province’s health systems are on high alert for a surge in Covid-19 hospitalisations in the next few weeks. EThekwini Municipality mayor Mxolisi Kaunda urged communities to co-operate with government in flattening the curve, saying the city was expected to become the epicentre of the Covid-19 infections. Kaunda called on eThekwini residents to be vigilant and continue to abide by the lockdown regulations to slow down the coronavirus infection rate. Over the weekend, he embarked on an awareness campaign in various public transport facilities including at taxi and bus ranks. “Let us continue to stay at home and only be outdoors when it is necessary to get medical assistance, groceries or making our way to places of employment. Ensure that you wear your mask at all times – covering your mouth and nose – wash your hands with soap or hand sanitiser and maintain social distance at all times,” he said. Kaunda also reiterated those attending funerals must adhere to safety protocols by keeping the number of mourners below 50, including family members. “Under lockdown regulations, we must also remember that social gatherings like weddings and parties are still not permitted as the country is still grappling with the pandemic. Let us be responsible citizens by reporting those who are flouting the lockdown regulations to law enforcement agencies,” he said. Kaunda also urged employees to allow older persons or persons with underlying health conditions to work from home or be away from the workplace because they were more susceptible to the pandemic. “The lockdown regulations allow for this take place provided that a medical certificate is produced to that effect and is presented to the employer,” he said. He encouraged residents to practice healthy living during this difficult time by regularly exercising and consuming foods that boost the immune system. “Let us drink warm water with lemon, ginger and garlic. Let us also continue to exercise in the comfort of our homes or as stipulated by the lockdown regulations to ensure that our bodies are strong enough to fight off the virus. If we follow the lockdown regulations appropriately at all times, we will contribute significantly to flattening the curve. Let us work together to defeat Covid-19,” he said. Daily News