Durban - Extra police units have been sent to Taylors Halt, outside of Pietermaritzburg where eight people were killed in the space of 24 hours in what is believed to be an ongoing community feud. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula visited the area on Thursday where he condemned the killings. “It is very disturbing to learn that eight people were killed in such a brutal manner during two separate incidents at Taylors Halt yesterday,” he said. “Information at hand indicates that these incidents could be because of a longstanding feud in the community. We once again appeal to our communities to refrain from using violence to address conflicts,” he said. Police said that on n Wednesday, just after 12pm, four men were repairing a vehicle when another vehicle arrived next to them. The occupants of the vehicle opened fire at them fatally wounding three men. The victims were aged between 33 and 37. The fourth victim who was injured during the shooting managed to escape and was taken to hospital for medical attention. Police have identified the deceased as as Sbonelo Ndawo (33); Lawrence Zondi (33) and Ayanda Sishi (37). Eight hours later, at approximately 8pm,  five members of a family were attacked and shot by unknown suspects, KZN police said. Police said the four women and one child were shot and fatally wounded at their home. About a kilometre away from the scene, a bakkie with bullet holes was found stationary on the road facing oncoming traffic. It was established that the driver (25) of the bakkie was taken to hospital after he was shot and wounded. The deceased were identified as Dingeni (70); Zodwa (61); Thobeka (24); Sphelele (12) and 16-month-old Thandolwethu Nxele. Charges of murder and attempted murder were opened for investigation at Taylors Halt SAPS. “We have visited the area and are very disturbed by what we heard. I have instructed that additional deployments to be brought into the area immediately to deal with rampant criminality in the area. I have also directed that a dedicated investigation team hit the ground running and to work none stop until the culprits responsible for these callous murders are brought to book,”  said Lieutenant General Jula. Daily News