Durban - The VW Caddy and Polo appear to be the vehicles of choice for criminals in the commission of crimes such as home invasions, business robberies and scouting areas to target. White VW Caddys and Polos have been the common denominators in home invasions and business robberies in the Durban area in recent weeks. A Bolo (“be on the lookout”) was recently issued to alert the police, community policing forums (CPFs), security companies and neighbourhood watches for a white VW Caddy, with tinted windows. The information said the number of suspects ranged from five to seven. It was alleged that they were involved in a spate of home invasions in and around the south of Durban - Umhlatuzana, Malvern, Seaview, Umkomaas and Kharwarstan. Chatsworth CPF chairperson Jakes Singh said they were aware of the Caddy that was involved in home invasions in Durban. “All our patrollers and law enforcement officers are on the lookout for the vehicle,” he said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that home invasions took place in the above areas. It was also reported that two men in a white VW Polo had committed an armed robbery in the Bluff area and had stolen two iPhones. Gwala said that it was alleged that a group of unknown suspects broke into a business at Southway Mall yesterday morning and stole cosmetics, perfumes and shaving blades. She said the suspects fled in a getaway vehicle. Reports from sources allege that the vehicle used was a white VW Polo. Again, Gwala confirmed a home invasion in Morningside on Monday night, but there was no mention of the make of the vehicle. However, reports suggested that the suspects arrived in a white VW Polo sedan and robbed two apartments in the same building. She also confirmed a robbery at an Engen garage in Springfield, and reports suggest the robbers were driving a white VW Polo hatchback. South African Institute for Security Studies (ISS) researcher Johan Burger said particular criminal groups had particular preferences, depending on their modus operandi. Burger speculated that in the case of the VW Polos, criminals might like smaller cars that were capable of high speeds. Those cars also had good performance and allowed criminals to move in and out from a crime scene fairly quickly. “Their modus operandi could be a vehicle that’s very popular and doesn’t stand out,” he said. Daily News