Durban - NEARLY three years after the October 2017 storm left a trail of destruction in various parts of eThekwini district, damaging almost 1 300 homes, only 229 units have been repaired by the municipality. For the Gasa family, it has been a struggle to survive since a municipal stormwater pipe burst and flattened sections of their uMlazi property. Family spokesperson Siza Gasa said attempts to get help from the city have fallen on “deaf ears”. “Our home was destroyed by water from the municipal-owned stormwater pipe. A huge section of the house was flattened and we used material to close off the remaining portion to be able to sleep. Despite the millions that were announced for disaster relief, our circumstances have not changed. Councillors and the municipality arrived to assess the damage and that was the last we saw of them.” He said they received no clear answers when they went to the disaster management offices to follow up on the matter. “I don’t understand why they are failing to assist us as most of the damage here was caused by the municipal stormwater pipe. We have waited for too long. We wish that the house could be fixed before December because we have endured enough hardship already.” IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said many houses that had been damaged had not been repaired. “It can’t be right that in the third financial year after the 2017 storm there are families still living in squalor. Since the budgets for the storm damage were made in 2018, we never received reports to say there were financial challenges facing the rebuilding project. “We all (at the city’s executive committee) agreed that section 36 can be used to speed up the process because this was a disaster, meaning there was no time to wait. Peoples’ houses were destroyed and three years later some are still without homes,” Nkosi said. According to a March 17, 2020, presentation on the disaster by the Human Settlements Department to the executive committee, 1293 units had been assessed and approved by the department for assistance. In March last year R46million was paid to the municipality for the 2018/19 period to attend to 367 affected units. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said 1293 houses were being built to the tune of R35m, and 15 contractors were appointed and on-site. “To date, 229 units are complete. The city also provided material for families that were living in informal settlements to rebuild their shacks to the tune of R9.5million, and the total number of shacks is 954. The city also spent over R12million to rebuild transit camps. “eThekwini also attended to 489 damaged roofs to the tune of R9.2million. The city also spent over R23million to repair hostels. Another R6million was spent on repairing flats that were damaged by the storm, which brings the total expenditure to almost R90million.” He appealed to all those affected to bear with the city as it was doing everything in its power to meet the victims’ needs. Mayisela said under no circumstances would the city prioritise residents affiliated to any political party because it treats all its residents equally. Human Settlements committee chairperson Thanduxolo Sabelo could not be reached for comment. The DA’s Zamani Khuzwayo said the party was disappointed that some money made available by the province was returned because it was not used. Daily News