Durban - A MAN accused of kidnapping and raping a Pietermaritzburg woman has apparently tried to commit suicide at the Hillcrest SAPS holding cells. The 34-year-old man, who cannot be identified until he has formally pleaded to two counts of rape and kidnapping charges, was supposed to have appeared for his bail application in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. However, attorney Wesley Rogers told the court that his client, who was being held at Hillcrest SAPS cells, had tried to take his life on Monday evening. Rogers said the Hillcrest police had been given his schedule five medication with the doctor’s prescription. The medication was supposed to be locked away and administered under supervision. Rogers said his client was instead given all of his medication to keep with him in his cell by the officers. He apparently took a large dose of the medication and fell into a coma. Rogers further claimed that the Hillcrest police then failed to call an ambulance, despite other inmates in the cell screaming that the man was dying and needed urgent help. A person who came to visit and give the man some clothing made the discovery. He was taken to hospital and woke from the coma on Thursday morning. Rogers said he was appalled by the lack of supervision and cell visits at the Hillcrest SAPS. He asked the court to keep his client at the Westville Correctional Services hospital for his safety. Prosecutor Nqobile Malinga asked for the matter to be adjourned to next Thursday. Magistrate Gwendolyn Robinson said the adjournment was not for a bail hearing, but rather for an update on his health. A date would then be set for a bail hearing. The victim and the man lived in the same complex in Pietermaritzburg. He apparently snatched the woman’s dog and then offered to drive her around to look for the missing pet. He then kidnapped her and kept her at a bed and breakfast in the Hillcrest area. She later escaped and was found at a shopping centre. The man was charged with kidnapping at Mountain Rise police station in Pietermaritzburg and rape at the Hillcrest police station. He was arrested in Port Shepstone earlier this month. Asked about the allegations levelled against the Hillcrest SAPS officers, spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said he would not comment on court cases and evidence led in court. The man’s attempted suicide came on the same day that one of two men suspected of killing five woman at Mtwalume on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast was found hanging in his cell at Scottburgh SAPS. A second suspect also attempted suicide by swallowing crushed glass, but survived. Daily News