Durban -A SECOND dangerous snake was rescued off a Durban beach in as many months. A black mamba was rescued off Addington Beach on Tuesday. The public, before this incident, had reported sightings of a black mamba on the South Pier of the Durban harbour, days before the stranding. The first snake, a yellow-bellied sea snake, was rescued on uMhlanga main beach in early July. Snakes are considered excellent swimmers, but are rarely found in the sea, except for pelagic sea snake species. “There are numerous rodents resident on Durban’s piers, which would have provided an adequate food source for the mamba. We can only speculate how it got there. Although there is a green belt that runs inland, he could have crawled into a car’s engine compartment and silently travelled to Durban,” said Carl Schloms, a senior herpetologist at the South African Association for Marine Biological Research (Saambr). Schloms said the public and beachgoers had nothing to fear because cases of snakes on the beach were extremely isolated. “In the event of a snake being spotted, never try to capture or kill the snake,” said Schloms. Saambr staff working in the Dangerous Creatures Reptile Hall along the Village Walk at uShaka Marine World, are qualified and capable of assisting. If the public or beachgoers spot a snake on the beach, they should rather call a specialist to remove it, or notify law enforcement to secure the area before a qualified snake catcher or herpetologist removes the animal. uShaka Marine World Sea World spokesperson Ann Kunz said the rescued black mamba was doing extremely well. Although Saambr was confident the snake would make a full recovery, the snake would have to be monitored for a few more days. “She will be released into a suitable release site once she receives her veterinary clearance and release permit,” said Kunz. She said the yellow-bellied snake was another success story. Initially, the snake was assisted during feeding but now, with little assistance, he was feeding on his own. Kunz said Saambr was planning for the yellow-bellied snake’s release. Daily News