Durban – PHOENIX residents spoke of how a bank employee died of stab wounds outside his home yesterday. Dimitri Shaquille Johnson, 23, was stabbed in the chest and neck outside a tuckshop on Clearhaven Close, said his father Shakeel Johnson. Residents, who did not want to be named, said Johnson had walked about 100m from his home to the tuckshop to buy a cigarette. A man, apparently known to him, a woman and a girl walked on to the road from a pathway. Johnson began chatting to friends next to a car with his back to the wall when the man approached him. It is alleged that, after a few words were exchanged between the two, the man stabbed him. Residents said Johnson held his neck and ran home. He collapsed on his back outside the driveway gate. Residents ran to his aid and tried to stop the bleeding by placing towels on the neck wound before paramedics arrived. A neighbour said he was shocked and traumatised after seeing Johnson die. According to KZN VIP Medics spokesperson Glen Naidoo, Johnson died on the scene from blood loss. His mother Gita was at work and his father had gone shopping in the Durban CBD, when the incident took place. He has two sisters and a brother. “I came home to find out my son was dead. I saw him laying there at the mortuary. There was nothing I could do,” Johnson senior said. Shortly after the murder, Phoenix police arrested a man in the vicinity. “The man who stabbed him stood in the police station as if nothing had happened. Islam says we must forgive. It was in God’s will that it happened. I can’t comprehend what to do now. I lost my son,” Johnson senior said. A witness, who did not want to be named, said they will ensure that justice is served so that criminals are removed from Phoenix. “The area was once crime-free. Drug dealing and drug abuse have destroyed our community. We must stand up for what is right. Remove the criminals from the area,” he said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a case of murder was under investigation at Phoenix SAPS. Daily News