Durban - JUST days after the sale of alcohol was unbanned, a metro police officer was stabbed to death while trying to stop a group of people from drinking in public. Dumisani Zondi, 42, lived in uMlazi P section and was acting metro police captain at Durban’s Albert Park. Described as a no-nonsense police officer, he was allegedly stabbed in the back and died at the scene after telling a group of people to stop drinking in public, in Montclair, on Wednesday night. His brother S’thembiso Zondi said Dumisani had come home as usual and went to train at a sports ground in Montclair. “It is said that while they were playing soccer, there was a group of people drinking alcohol, disrespecting them and swearing at them. “After training, he reprimanded them and asked them to stop drinking in public because it was illegal,” said Zondi. He said tempers flared when the group was reprimanded. Dumisani turned away from the altercation and one person in group produced a knife and stabbed him in the back. “I was called and told about what had happened. When I got to the scene, he was dead and the suspect had fled. “It is awful that he was killed for reprimanding people. “He didn’t have anything (weapons) on him because when he used to get home, he would take off his uniform, leave his gun in a safe place and go to gym,” said Zondi. He said Dumisani had been with metro police for 13 years and was made acting captain at the Albert Park metro station last year. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said Dumisani was an outstanding officer, who had recently arrested two taxi drivers who were bullying and assaulting Metro Police officers in the city. Sewpersad said it was clear he was “an officer who would not take nonsense” and that the metro police needed more such officers. “He was a very good acting captain. He was one of the very hard-working acting captains and still had a lot to achieve in his career,” he said. Sewpersad said they would work closely with detectives to arrest the killer and asked for anybody with information to notify metro police or SAPS. Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said officers from the Durban Serious Organised Crime Unit were investigating the policeman’s murder. No arrests have been made, but Hawks officers were “hot on the heels of the suspect”, he said. Rescue Care spokesperson Rowan Scandroglio said paramedics arrived on the scene to find Dumisani had sustained a fatal stab wound to his body. “He was declared deceased on the scene,” said Scandroglio. Interviewed recently by sister publication Sunday Tribune, Dumisani had said that although he was afraid of contracting Covid-19, he was driven and prepared to make the required sacrifice to fulfil his obligations as a police officer. Daily News