AS South Africa marks Women’s Month, the country’s women are still under-represented in the legal field, according to advocate Amanda Hulley. The 36-year-old former Durban resident, who now lives in Pietermaritzburg and works for Legal Aid South Africa, said women faced many challenges in the field, especially in criminal law where she estimated that only 20% were women. “Many women are afraid of going into the criminal field and instead opt for corporate law. One of the reasons is how women are treated by their male colleagues. I have received remarks, for example that ‘Legal Aid has got a pretty face’,” she said. Her male colleagues would, however, later acknowledge that she was good at her job. Hulley, who started practising in 2006 and has worked in Verulam, Nsuze and Maphumulo, said it was important for women to know their worth. “We need to love ourselves. A woman needs to know who she is and where she wants to go. All women are beautiful, smart and wonderfully made by God. It’s up to us to realise our beauty and worth.” She counts former American first lady Michelle Obama as one of her role models. Born and raised in Verulam and the oldest of three children, she has always been outspoken and liked to fight for the underdog. “It is this fight for the underdog and how we treat each other as equals that is why I enjoy working at Legal Aid.” In her 14 years as a lawyer, she had learned many lessons - one being taking on a case where five men were wrongly accused of robbery. When she first took on the case, the men had given up on fighting to prove their innocence after spending about seven years in jail while their case was partly heard. They had been denied bail. Hulley found that some of the men were in jail for other cases when the crimes happened. The men sued the state for wrongful imprisonment and received about R3million each in compensation. Hulley said her time is spent raising her son Antonio, being an advocate and running her beauty spa business. Daily News