Durban - THE man who is allegedly behind a number of shootings in the Wentworth area appeared in court on Monday on attempted murder charges Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Chad Marais, 27, was arrested on Sunday and appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on two accounts of attempted murder. The matter was adjourned until August 24 for further investigation. Mbele said Marais was arrested at his home on Lansdowne Road by officers from the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation unit, who worked tirelessly to curb criminal activities, arrest wanted suspects and maintain peace in the Wentworth policing area. According to Mbele, Marais was linked to a March 15 shooting where it is alleged that a group of residents were seated outside a house in Tiffin Road in Wentworth, when the occupants of a vehicle drove past them and fired shots. A man and a woman were injured. Marais was apparently also linked to a notorious gang called “Cartel” from Lansdowne Road, a road that is infamous for drugs, shootings and gang violence. Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula commended the police officers for the arrest. Wentworth Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson Pastor Donovan Anderson said the situation in Wentworth was fragile, tense and people were very scared. “But it seemed like the police had some leeway and were getting into solving the crime, therefore it was very good that someone was arrested for the drive-by shooting.” Anderson said it had been relatively quiet in Wentworth ever since the SANDF arrived and there being a high police visibility, but a man was shot dead on Chamberlain Road on Friday evening. “It’s not related to the incidents in Wentworth, it’s just that it happened in our area but the man is from Wentworth,” said Anderson. Mbele confirmed Friday’s shooting and said a 29-year-old man was found inside his vehicle with a gunshot wound to the head on Chamberlain Road in Jacobs. “He was pronounced dead en route to hospital. A case of murder was opened for investigation,” said Mbele. Daily News