Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner of police, Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula, on Friday praised the team of investigators responsible for the speedy arrest of the suspects involved in the recent Wentworth shooting. “I am very pleased with the investigations conducted by detectives from the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit as well as all other police agencies working together with the community to curb violence and restore peace in the area. "Further operations are continuing to apprehend all the suspects responsible for disorder within the Wentworth area. Our successes can also be attributed to the citizens and community leaders who are standing up to criminals in the area and are working with police to clean up their neighbourhood,” said Jula. The three suspects, Simon Jasmin or "Moni", Kyle Pretorius or "Para" and Tyrel Martin, appeared at the Durban Magistrate's Court on Thursday on the grounds of conspiracy to commit murder. “The charges emanate from an incident that occurred on 10 July 2020 on Gulmal Crescent in Wentworth, where two men were shot,” said Brigadier Jay Naicker in a statement on Friday. In the early hours of July 10, Bradley Armugum, 24, was shot and killed inside a 1st for KZN tow truck. The driver of the tow truck sustained an undisclosed number of gunshot wounds but survived. “It is alleged that a tow truck belonging to 1st for KZN came to park opposite a house on Simla Road alongside the verge and the driver hooted for his co-worker to come out. "The male, aged 24, came out and jumped into the front passenger seat of the tow truck. While talking to the driver, a silver VW Polo pulled alongside the tow truck and started firing at the vehicle several times,” said Colonel Thembeka Mbele. A case of murder and attempted murder was opened at the Wentworth police station. “The accused were also charged for murder as well as attempted murder and they will be joining their co-accused, Chad Marais and Mthandeni Masilva Khoza, who are already in custody,” said Naicker. “During the investigation, police discovered that Martin and Pretorius were out on parole. Pretorius has also been linked to an attempted murder case that occurred on 15 March 2020 on Tifflin Road in Wentworth, where a man and a woman were shot and injured.” All of the suspects are allegedly linked to a notorious gang from Lansdowne Road in the Wentworth area. African News Agency