Durban - A SEA Cow Lake businessman was shot in the leg after he struck a robber with a chair to save his wife from being assaulted. The owners of N G Poultry came under attack from robbers, at their business in Joyce Road, on Saturday. The business director Manoj Sewalall, 49, was shot in the thigh and will undergo surgery, on Monday, said his wife Gaitree Sewalall. She said they were lucky to be alive after their traumatising ordeal. The gates were closed to the store. When a customer had left the store, two men pretending to buy chickens walked in. A third held up their employee at the door. “They asked if we were selling chickens. My employee said to speak to the lady she will assist with you. It happened too fast. We had two previous robberies, so we serve the customers the chicken through a hatch. One of the men carrying a firearm stood by the front counter. “They physically lifted our employee from the door and threw him into the shop. One man climbed through the hatch. I heard my husband say ‘take cover’. The men made no demands. I was in the office and I hid under the table. The robber began pulling at my leg. Manoj had pressed the panic button, he grabbed a plastic chair and began hitting the robber. I think this startled him. The robber ran and climbed back through the hatch,” she said. “The robber standing at the counter fired a shot. My husband took cover and the bullet hit his thigh.” Sewalall said they heard from witnesses that the robbers got into a getaway car, parked on the N2 freeway. “My husband’s actions saved me. I don’t know what they would have done to us. They didn’t take anything. We are not sure why they did it. “Our family-owned business has been here since 2002. When I heard the gunshot, I prayed they didn’t kill Manoj,” she said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the suspects' vehicle was spotted by KwaMashu police officers along Dumisani Makhaye Highway heading towards KwaDabeka. “A chase ensued. There was a shoot-out between the suspects and the police. The men abandoned their vehicle and fled on foot into the bushes. The vehicle was hijacked in the Umbilo area, in December 2019,” Gwala said. Newlands East police station are investigating a case of attempted business robbery and attempted murder. Daily News