Durban - For the past two months, teachers and pupils of Apollo Secondary in Chatsworth had been praying for their longest serving teacher, who was on ventilation in hospital, to pull through from Covid-19 and return to school. However, she finally lost the fight and died on Tuesday. Suraya Naidoo, 57, had been fighting for her life since she and her husband, Janesh, who was the head of planning at Telkom, had tested positive for Covid-19 early in June. Naidoo’s positive result prompted the closure of Apollo Secondary soon after schools reopened that month. Their daughter, 22, had tested negative. The couple was admitted to hospital in June, where Janesh died a few days later, on June 13. The news of Naidoo’s death left teachers and pupils devastated and battling to come to terms with their loss. She was cremated on Wednesday. Two teachers, a married couple, one at Clairwood Secondary, the other at Savannah Park Secondary, tested positive around the same time as the Naidoos, also resulting in their schools being closed, and those who had been in contact with them being tested. Yesterday, Grade 12 teachers and pupils held a moving and emotional ceremony for Naidoo, and a wall of remembrance was set up outside the school where they posted flowers and messages of hope. The South African flag was lowered as a sign that the school was in mourning. Naidoo was described as an iconic and dedicated teacher. She was the longest serving staff member, having taught at the school for 31 years. She taught tourism, geography and social science. Principal Selvan Moodley said his staff were devastated. He said Naidoo was last at school on June 4 and fell ill that evening. Since then, they never lost hope that she would recover and return to work. “She dedicated her life to our school. The last two months were traumatic for the staff. We prayed for her to pull through, but unfortunately she died this week. She will be dearly missed,” said Moodley. Pain and a sense of loss was written all over the faces of the teachers and pupils as they took turns to pay tribute to Naidoo in the form of cards, flowers, posters and candles, which were placed at her wall of remembrance. Teacher Naren Brijlal said Naidoo was a lively and bubbly person who was always full of life. Another teacher, Nikita Chetty, said Naidoo was the light of the school. “An inspirational human being. She was humble and down to earth. She was always there for all of us,” Chetty said. Daily News