Durban - THE return to school of more than 2 million pupils in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday was glitch-free, said the Department of Education. Some had returned to school for the first time since the end of March. To monitor Day 1, Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu visited Zwelibanzi High School and Isidingo Primary School, both falling under the uMlazi district, and interacted with teachers and pupils. His message was: “As we go back to school, parents must understand Covid-19 and encourage safe practices for all pupils.” Parents described the day as filled with mixed emotions, and as on the first day of the school year, most parents escorted their children to school. Some pupils said they were excited, but unsure of what to expect as soon as their parents left them at the gate. Vee Gani, KZN Parents Association chairperson, said the first day for some grades went smoothly despite the large number of pupils returning in the middle of the pandemic. He said schools had time to plan and arrange for pupils to be split up . “Obviously there were challenges here and there, especially with the screening of pupils. “The morning rush and trying to screen everyone at the same time, it needed some co-operation from everyone. I did not get reports on any huge problems, and those who were returning for the first time did not know what to expect. It looks like everything will fall into place. This is the new normal. We all need to adjust,” said Gani. As a safety precaution, not all pupils started school yesterday. Grades R, 1, 6, and 11 returned yesterday and grades 2, 5, 8 and 9 are expected back tomorrow. SA Democratic Teachers Union provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza claimed there were schools in Zululand and the uMlazi district that had not received personal protection equipment. She said the instruction by the department to reopen all schools knowing that not all schools were ready, was misleading. Caluza said there were many schools that were in an unsuitable condition for pupils and teachers to return, but were opened. National Teachers’ Union president Alan Thompson encouraged parents to make their own observations to determine if their schools were safe. “Although some schools have so far been able to deal with many of the challenges associated with Covid-19, many have struggled to meet the minimum requirements for reopening. We find the statement that says schools are ready puzzling, if not shocking,” said Thompson. Daily News