Durban - A WOMAN accused of defrauding the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) of more than R7 million was yesterday granted bail in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court. Lindiwe Shangase, 54, was arrested where she worked in Westville for her alleged involvement in fraudulent activity at Ixopo where 47 fraudulent Sassa cards were issued. Sibusisiwe Gazu, 31, and Bongani Gumede, 39, were arrested in November in connection with the same case and on Tuesday the investigation led police to Shangase. Spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said police seized cellphones, six bank cards and other documents. “The suspect was responsible for fraudulently issuing 47 Sassa cards. The total value of the money defrauded is R7295550. The suspect was granted bail of R10 000. All three accused will appear again in court on September 22.” When Gazu and Gumede were arrested, they were found with 47 Sassa cards and just over R70 000, Gwala said. Sassa provincial spokesperson Sandy Godlwana welcomed Shange’s arrest, adding that social grant fraud remained the biggest challenge for the organisation. “We subscribe to a zero tolerance approach pertaining to fraud and corruption, and are satisfied with the increase in number of arrests and convictions.” She said they were optimistic that the tide was turning against fraud. Evashnee Naidu from Black Sash applauded the police for the arrest. “These are people who are preying on the most vulnerable in our society, particularly during this pandemic when many people became unemployed. This left many households depending on grants to feed families.” She said the organisation hoped to see more arrests of this nature. “We know that there are serious fraud challenges within Sassa and the post office relating to social grants. We hope other perpetrators will be brought to book, but more importantly we hope the money will be returned to Sassa so it can go to the people who rightfully need it.” Naidu said while the Covid-19 grant was available, many people were still unable to access it. “The technical challenges and verification delays in these grants are also preventing this.” Daily News