Durban - METRO POLICE have been cracking the whip on drugs within the eThekwini Municipality over the past week. Commissioner Steve Middleton said SAPS Crime Intelligence and metro police questioned three people on Wednesday who were found in possession of dagga, allegedly for medicinal purposes. “No arrests were made but the dagga was booked into SAPS. Crime Intelligence is investigating,” said Middleton. Institute for Security Studies researcher Richard Chelin said at first glance it appeared that the dagga was neatly packaged as if ready for sale. However, there would be a need to determine whether the drugs were for medical purposes and verified as such. Thus far, cannabis has been removed from Schedule 7 but with specific conditions and it will have to be seen if this incident applies to the relevant conditions stipulated by the recent amendments made by the minister of health to the Medicines and Related Substances Act, 1965 (Act No 101 of 1965) Schedules. “Going forward, once the cannabis for Private Purposes Bill goes through and is adopted by Parliament, these are some of the issues that law enforcement will have to deal with. Despite the fact that the amount for private purposes is elaborated in the Bill, trafficking and trading in the product will still be disallowed,” said Chelin. Westville Community Police Forum (CPF) secretary Wayne le Roux said the complaint about drug dealing had originated from Pitlochry Road, after he received a call from a local resident who informed him that they were concerned about drug dealing in the area. “The call came that they were dealing at an open field at the Pitlochry Sports Club. Apparently, it has been quite rife regarding drug dealing and loitering for a while now,” said Le Roux. When he received the call from the resident they conducted a site visit and then he notified the relevant authorities. Last Friday, Metro Police officers from CI Counter Narcotics, Drug Task Team and Metro K9 had conducted an intelligence-driven operation at Newlands East, north of Durban, where they executed a search warrant on Maasbanker Avenue for the search and seizure of illegal drugs. “The search led to the discovery and seizure of approximately 33kg of crystal methamphetamine,” said Middleton. He said the value of the drugs recovered was about R10million. Daily News