HEAVY DUTY trucks are using roads through the Bluff to try and bypass the congestion on Bayhead Road leading to Durban’s port. For more than a week, trucks have been queuing on Bayhead Road to enter the port. On Wednesday Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) said the congestion was related to the operation of a private bulk terminal operator located in Island View. TNPA claimed that traffic was free-flowing in the Bayhead, Island View and Maydon Wharf precincts, after severe truck congestion on Monday and Tuesday. General manager of the Port of Durban Moshe Motlohi said following urgent liaison with the terminals’ senior management and discussions in the port’s daily virtual stakeholder operations meetings, other terminal operators volunteered to open up their own staging areas to move trucks off the road. “I express gratitude to metro police and SAPS for the sterling job done in ensuring that the port remained accessible during the congestion. “Also, we appreciate the spirit of joint problem solving demonstrated by other terminal operators, who volunteered their skills in resolving the issue,” he said. In recent days, tipper trucks had been seen queuing on Bayhead Road and affecting traffic and other facilities, including container trucks destined for the Durban Container Terminal. Last week, severe congestion occurred in the area after two incidents in quick succession: due to a collision and a network outage at a private bulk terminal, affecting three of their truck loading bays and severely hampering their operations. Jason Scott Johnson took to the Bluff Residents Against Trucks Facebook page to express his outrage. “I am tired of hearing it’s a port problem, I am tired of hearing it’s a national problem. The problem is that it is illegal for them to be on our roads and, not only that, we are up at midnight everyday because of the noise of these trucks speeding on our roads. “I will open a case of manslaughter if someone dies as a result of a truck accident. From 12.33am until 4am this morning, there was a total of about 60 trucks. That is 60 different times residents are woken up because of the noise and the speed,” Johnson wrote. Daily News