Durban - PENSIONERS, the technologically challenged and people who do not own smartphones or laptops have been in a panic since the South African Revenue Service (Sars) sent them auto-assessment SMSes. Taxpayers who also wanted to edit their auto-assessment were unsure whether they were taking the correct steps when editing. A pensioner, who did not want to be named, said he had received the SMS but it was an incorrect assessment and he had more forms to hand in. “I tried to get Sars on the phone but you’re like number 2000 on the line and don’t seem to get any satisfaction. I want to do my taxes but I can’t because I’m getting blocked. I want to make an appointment but I don’t know how to do it because they don’t want to help me.” The pensioner said he did not want to stir trouble, he just wanted to get his taxes done properly and correctly. “My problem is I don’t have a smartphone or laptop and I really don’t know how to do these things. "So what do you do? Obviously there’s going to be thousands of people in the same position. I’m 60, for me to look for somebody to help me now, I might pick up the virus and it’s going to be a big issue for me.” He said trying to get assistance from Sars was an endless hassle but they did tell him that he could go to a branch in September, provided he made an appointment first. Siphithi Sibeko, Sars head of communication and media, said to assist those struggling, they had made various videos and frequently asked questions available on the Sars website, explaining how the auto-assessment process worked. Sibeko said taxpayers who received an auto-assessment SMS and logged into eFiling or the Sars MobiApp to accept or edit their assessment should get a notification within seconds to say their return has been submitted. He said immediately after the return is filed, an ITA34 (assessment) is generated. If selected for verification, the taxpayer will get a notification to say a letter has been issued, listing supporting documents needed. Daily News