DURBAN - The Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal has called on Premier Sihle Zikalala to suspend the Head of Department (HoD) for Education (DoE) Dr Enock Nzama for his alleged role in the procurement of sanitary towels. The DA said Nzama should be suspended pending the outcome of an investigation into the oversupply of sanitary towels for female learners across the province, which cost the department more than R120 million. “The move comes after serious allegations made by suspended senior officials within the DoE implicating Dr Nzama in skulduggery around the multimillion-rand tender. This after officials cited the HoD as having given the instruction to go ahead with the procurement of the items without first conducting a needs analysis,” the DA’s member of the provincial legislature Dr Imran Keeka said in a statement on Thursday. “What is interesting here is that these officials have been suspended, rightfully so. But the person that presided over this matter (Nzama) is walking around as if he was not involved in it,” Keeka told African News Agency (ANA) on Thursday. In July, the MEC of Education in KZN, Kwazi Mshengu, released a forensic report on the findings of the investigation into the procurement of sanitary towels by the DoE. According to Mshengu, in 2016, the DoE launched a project to provide sanitary towels to “indigent girl learners” from Grades 4 to 12. A budget of R20 million was set aside for the project. In April 2017, the department approved the purchase of sanitary pads for 953,122 girl learners at a cost of R54,899,827.20. In August 2017, the department approved and issued a second order for the same number of learners and at the same cost. In total, between 2016 and 2017 the DoE said it spent R129,799,654 on sanitary towels. This went over the prescribed budget by R109,799,654. While in the implementation of the programme, allegations were made by “unions and other organs of society” that the DoE oversupplied sanitary towels. “These allegations led into the commissioning of a forensic investigation conducted by Phumlani Mkhize & Associates (Pty) Ltd,” Mshengu said in the report. Key findings from the report show that in determining the number of girl learners to benefit, neither a needs analysis nor any evaluations of the pilot project was performed. There was no guide to the distribution and implementation of this project. Circular number 65 of 2017, which sought to address this issue, was only signed into effect on July 27, 2017, when the distribution had already started on May 23, 2017. However, in the submission made to the HoD subsequently, the number of girl learners to benefit remained unchanged and no issue of surplus stock was referred to nor any evaluation of the first order. Following the release of these findings by Mshengu in July, Keeka was adamant that Nzama was implicated in the matter, saying: “The DA’s view was that there could be no smoke without fire and that it was highly probable that Dr Nzama and former MEC Dlungwana were somehow involved.” Keeka said the DA questioned how “such large amounts” of money had escaped the attention of Nzama, but MEC Mshengu refused to answer. “While we respect that due process must be followed, it is part of good governance that the HoD should be suspended given the cloud of corruption that hangs low over his head,” said Keeka. In response to the DA’s call for Nzama’s suspension, provincial government spokesperson Lennox Mabaso told ANA on Thursday that the premier “is committed to clean governance and will stand by the process of the law”. “As a government, we are not going to find people guilty by hook or by crook. There’s an independent process of investigating, and the process is still not completed. "At this point in time, the premier has not been made aware of any evidence that is new. Should there be any evidence that warrants action, the premier has stated on record that he is committed to building a capable state that exercises accountability,” Mabaso said. -African News Agency