Durban - A TECHNICAL problem at the Durban port bulk terminals operations led to a backlog of trucks along Bayhead Road in Durban yesterday, said Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad. Since Monday, hundreds of trucks heading to the Durban port via Bayhead Road have had to queue, disrupting the flow of traffic. Moshe Motlohi, general manager at the Port of Durban, said the IT system of private terminal operator Bulk Connections experienced a network outage and affected its three truck loading bays in the Island View complex. Motlohi said the backlog began due to a truck overturning on Bayhead Road on Monday. The road had only been cleared that afternoon. He said the collision caused a ripple effect of container trucks missing their slots in the Transnet booking system. “While the port was attending to the resulting backlog at the Durban Container Terminals, a further challenge arose when the IT system experienced a network outage. This compounded the traffic congestion.” Motlohi said the Bulk Connections system was only restored yesterday morning. To deal with the traffic snarl-up, he said, as the port landlord Transnet National Ports Authority asked Transnet Port Terminals to allow its Pier 1 container terminal to absorb some of the bulk trucks into its truck staging facility. “We also worked with the bulk terminal to have a second access gate opened into Island View. As a longer term solution, we are motivating through the Port of Durban Decongestion Task Team for all terminals to have a booking system. “This will give port users full visibility of cargo handling equipment deployed and truck volumes so that they can plan when and when not to send vehicles to the port.” Motlohi said all terminal operators were urged to activate an early warning system to communicate any system failure to enable them to sensitise other port users to congestion incidents. Other port services affected were private container depots and private terminal operators responsible for landing, shipping and storage of petroleum, diesel, chemicals, oils, lubricants and aviation fuel. Daily News 