Durban - THREE men are expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday in connection with the shooting of two men outside a car wash in Phoenix. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said two groups had a dispute on Trenance Park Drive, on Sunday afternoon. Two people were shot in the fracas and are recovering in hospital, while an off-duty sergeant from the Durban Flying Squad was run over by a car. Witnesses and victims, who did not want to be named, said the group - including the policeman - arrived in three vehicles. They mentioned the names of three people they were looking for. One of those was in the car wash. It is alleged that the group attacked customers entering and leaving a shop and those waiting in the car wash. “We ran for our lives. We were hit with bricks, iron pipes, sticks and a wheel spanner for no reason. My friends suffered bruises to their hands, back and head. They damaged cars, including the headlights of a customer’s vehicle,” said a victim outside the Phoenix Police Station yesterday, where about a dozen victims gave statements to the police. The men had bruises to their bodies. Witnesses alleged the policeman drew his firearm and began shooting randomly. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said three men approached a Toyota Etios and opened fire on the occupants. “The driver sped off but knocked into a light pole. An off-duty policeman was run over in the process,” he said. The policeman is in a stable condition in hospital. A source said a man took the injured policeman’s firearm and shot Deenesh Reddy, 32, one of the occupants of the Etios. Reddy, who is employed at the car wash, was shot three times and is in a critical condition in hospital. The owner of the Etios declined to comment. A source said 12 bullet casings were found on the scene. A Phoenix resident, who fled the scene, was shot between a block of flats in Petalpark Place, across the road from the car wash. A car had followed him to the flats. The occupants fired several shots while driving past the flats. Resident Hemraj Ramanund said the shooters fired without consideration for the public. A bullet struck his lounge window, ricocheted off the wall and hit two bottles on his kitchen window sill. “We are lucky nobody was hurt,” he said. Mbele said the three were charged with attempted murder, and one was charged for illegal possession of a firearm. Phoenix community policing forum spokesperson Umesh Singh said the incident endangered the lives of residents. He said he was waiting for a full report. Daily News