Durban - THE man allegedly behind the recent spate of shootings, and those in March, in Wentworth was arrested at the weekend and is expected to appear in court once he is formally charged. According to a police source, detectives from the Provincial Organised Crime Investigations (Anti-Gang Task Team) and Crime Intelligence (Anti-Gang Unit) arrested the suspect for a number of drive-by shootings and attempted murders in the Wentworth area. The police source also said the man was detained at Inanda SAPS for two counts of attempted murder, where a man and a woman were shot in a drive-by shooting in Wentworth, in March. The suspect was apparently also linked to a notorious gang called “Cartel” from Lansdowne Road, a road that is infamous for drugs, shootings and gang violence. “The said suspect is to be further charged for murder, attempted murder and conspiracy to commit murder, all pertaining to the Wentworth gangs,” the source said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a 27-year-old man was arrested and he would only appear in court once he is charged. Nearly three weeks ago, a woman was shot and wounded at the corner of Silvertree and Lansdowne roads, a teenager was stabbed on Hime Street and rushed to hospital where he later died, and a man and his girlfriend sustained injuries when they were shot at by an unknown suspect on Jonas Road. In another incident, comedian Andrew Hughes and his passenger were wounded when they were shot by unknown suspects in another vehicle, while travelling on Lansdowne Road. Meanwhile, provincial Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula said they took the concerns very seriously in areas with gangs, such as Wentworth, Sydenham, Chatsworth, Phoenix and also uMlazi, because it is about the drug trade and turf wars. “Our sights are focused on dealing with the kingpins in these areas and also in the taxi industry.” Transport and Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli understood the call for an Anti-Gang Unit in Wentworth but said the SAPS had different units, such as Tactical Response Teams and the National Intervention Unit, which could also deal with crimes Wentworth faced. “I take note that some people believe that the police are not doing anything. It is police work to prevent people from being killed and prevent crime as well. It could be that their activities have not been effective,” said Ntuli. He also appealed to communities to assist the government and police with information. “We will try to work together so people will not lose hope in our police,” said Ntuli. Daily News