Durban - THE mother of a 15-year-old boy, who was decapitated by six men, told the Durban High Court, through a report, that she regularly had nightmares of how he was brutally murdered. The details were part of an “Impact of Crime on Victim’s Family” report that formed part of the State’s evidence submitted yesterday to the Durban High Court during sentencing arguments. Njabulo Mhlongo, Luyanda Zulu, Thulasizwe Nene, Njabulo Mbatha, Simphiwe Ntshangase and Banele “Boy” Mhlongo were convicted in February for the kidnapping and murder of Phiwayinkosi “Macala” Mhlongo, in May 2017. The men are between the ages of 20 and 26. They decapitated and killed the teen because he allegedly “sold out” Ntshangase’s brother, who was later killed by a mob in uMlazi. The boy’s body was found near a stormwater drain, close to his home in C Section uMlazi, and his head at a school in F Section. The State argued that the men should receive maximum sentences for their crimes. In the report, Phiwayinkosi’s mother Thoko Mtshali said her son was a humble, generous and respectful boy, who was a joy to have at home. Mtshali said her son’s gruesome death had a big impact on the family and that she experienced constant headaches because of the anxiety she often felt. Although she went for counselling sessions, it did not help to make the pain go away. Defence advocate Marshall Zulu, who represented Njabulo Mhlongo, said his client was 18 years old when he committed the crime and asked the court to take this into consideration. He said his client was a model pupil at school. Zulu argued sentencing him to 25 years would defeat the point of rehabilitation, as he would be mixing with hardened criminals. Advocate Theuns Botha, who represented Mbatha, said the court needed to consider that the men had consumed alcohol before they committed the crime. Senior State advocate Krishen Shah argued the men had not shown they were remorseful. He argued the men who were adults when they committed the crime should get life sentences, and those who were minors at the time should get 25 years. Sentencing has been set down provisionally for tomorrow. Daily News