Durban - KWAZULU-NATAL has revealed its turnaround strategy to combat crime after the release of the annual crime statistics last month, and on the eve of the release of the quarterly crime statistics for April1 to June 30, today. The 2019/20 annual statistics revealed that KZN was one of the leading provinces when it came to crime, with murder, carjacking and sexual offences being the highest. Yesterday, Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli and provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula addressed the media on the crime statistics turnaround strategy and interventions. Ntuli recently presented the turnaround strategy aimed at addressing violence and instability in the province to the Provincial Executive Council (PEC). The PEC approved the strategy, which would focus on taxi violence, gender-based violence (GBV) and political killings, for implementation. “Regarding murder cases involving political figures, a task team of expert investigators was established to investigate any suspected political killings in the province. Since its inception 249 people have been charged with murder, 35 people have been sentenced and 48 dockets are ready for trial,” said Ntuli. He said the strategy would focus more on intelligence-driven operations and community support to reduce the frequency and intensity of crime. “As part of the strategy, we are going to unleash a provincial campaign against serious crimes, and GBV will also feature strongly in the provincial campaign dubbed “Operation Vala”. The aim of this campaign is to intensify the departmental crime-prevention strategy and tactics,” said Ntuli. The campaign would also include the Department of Social Development and SAPS. Some of the activities would be co-ordinated through the provincial Council Against Crime, which is a structure that involves all role-players, including gender activists’ organisations, civil society, organised labour and business. “Through this campaign, we are determined to make our streets, homes and communities safer through improved police visibility and greater involvement in community policing and safety structures fighting crime is our collective responsibility,” said Ntuli. He said they would also conduct workshops and training to beef up ­stations where high numbers of GBV cases were reported. Working with the eThekwini Municipality, joint crime-prevention structures and civil society, they would embark on a campaign to mobilise communities to reclaim their space. Both Metro Police and SAPS working with community safety structures would focus on identified hot-spot areas such as Inanda, Ntuzuma, KwaMashu, uMlazi and Pinetown. They would also work with youth, interfaith, men’s forums, all crime-fighting structures, Safer Cities and academia to strengthen their educational campaigns on GBV. Ntuli said that they had also directed the police to prioritise murders and GBV cases and, in most cases, suspects were being apprehended. Daily News