Durban - PROVINCIAL Organised Crime Investigations and the presence of Police Minister Bheki Cele in KwaZulu-Natal resulted in the arrest of four people for theft, drug dealing and firearms possession, among other charges. Commissioner Steve Middleton of the metro police said three people were arrested after information was gathered in the past few weeks of gang violence in Wentworth. Middleton said police also seized a firearm with live ammunition, 900 heroin capsules, 28 Mandrax capsules, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) cables and Telkom cables. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a 26-year-old man was expected to appear in court today after he was arrested over the weekend with drugs and a gun. Mbele said the man was arrested on Sunday in Silvertree Road, Wentworth, during provincial organised crime investigations with the Provincial Trio Task Team. “The suspect was found with 1000 capsules of heroin and 28 Mandrax tablets with an estimated street value of more than R200000. A revolver with 49 rounds of ammunition was also seized from the suspect. Police investigations revealed that the firearm was stolen from Gingindlovu in 2001,” said Mbele. She said the man would be charged for dealing in drugs and the illegal possession of a firearm. Wentworth Community Police Forum chairperson Pastor Donovan Anderson said they had received reports of suspects’ arrests, with two being from Wentworth “A lot of police work is being done and units are operating in Wentworth too. This place is high profile at the moment,” said Anderson. He said the presence of the SANDF has made Wentworth “very quiet”. “This weekend was extra peaceful. Their presence is noticed everywhere. They are on the move, on foot, vans, patrolling all the hot spots. So there is a lot of good being done. We really appreciate that,” said Anderson. Cele was also involved in a joint operation with the Passenger Rail Agency, Durban metro police and SAPS in Montclair. A man who had stolen cables that weighed almost five tons - worth about R1.4 million - was caught. Prasa provincial spokesperson Zama Nomnganga said the man, 35, was found with catenary wire, used to carry electricity on train overheads, and earth wire that weighed 2.5 tons and was valued at R1m. They also found 2.2 tons of Telkom wires valued at nearly R450000. In addition, they found three firearms on the man. Prasa welcomed the arrest, Nomnganga saying it was one of its biggest recoveries. The bust comes as Prasa has had to deal with numerous thefts over the years that resulted in damage to its infrastructure and left it struggling to provide services to the millions of commuters around the country. Daily News