Durban - Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli has directed law enforcement agencies to be on high alert and improve their monitoring of bridges as rock-throwing incidents spike again. The department has also provided a WhatsApp number for residents to report suspicious individuals or groups along overhead bridges. The number is 0636979569 and people are also urged to dial 10111 should anyone witness suspicious individuals or groupings along overhead bridges. The developments come after numerous reports were made at the weekend that a number of cars had been damaged because of rock-throwing incidents that took place along the N2, near the M19 turn off. There were also incidents reported on Bul Bul Drive, in Chatsworth. The department said that several incidents had been reported last week in Durban, where motorists were targeted by a syndicate throwing stones on highways. Moreover, police believed that the motive behind the incidents was to hijack or rob motorists. The modus operandi was that once a rock was thrown, the motorist was then forced to stop and would thereafter be attacked. As a result, Ntuli directed law enforcement agencies to develop a clear strategy to address the resurgence of these criminal acts. “Such criminality is placing the lives of innocent road users at risk. “The criminal syndicates targeting these bridges in Durban will soon be clamped down. We want all those who are involved in these criminal acts to be arrested and harsher sentences must be meted out against them. We are also calling on motorists to be observant when approaching bridges and not to stop under any circumstances, but to instead remain calm and drive to the nearest police station or petrol service station, from where they can call the police,” said Ntuli. Rock-throwing incidents became prevalent in the Durban area from the end of 2017, however, there had been incidents prior to this. A few people have died and many more were left injured following a spate of rock-throwing incidents from overhead bridges. Security guards were placed on bridges where rock-throwing incidents had been reported. However, those guards have since been removed. There were plans to erect steel cages and surveillance cameras on the bridges in affected areas, provided there were funds. Daily News