Durban - THE man accused of kidnapping and raping a Pietermaritzburg woman was initially thought to be missing, but was instead brought to court late on Thursday. He was supposed to have been brought to the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court in the morning by Westville Prison officials after he had been discharged from the RK Khan Hospital following a suicide attempt while being held at Hillcrest police station. However, when he did not arrive, his attorney, Wesley Rogers told the court his client had been discharged and handed over to the police. Prosecutor Nqobile Malinga said inquiries needed to be made as to his whereabouts as he had not been brought from Westville Prison. Magistrate Gwendolyn Robinson had adjourned the matter so that the accused could be located. Last Thursday, the man, who cannot be named until he formally pleads to the rape charge, was supposed to have appeared for his bail application but the court learnt he had awoken from a coma that morning. Rogers informed the court that his client had been hospitalised after overdosing on schedule 5 medicine. Outside court on Thursday, Rogers told the Daily News he had not been informed where his client was, despite having phoned around. Later in the afternoon, he was called back to court when his client arrived. “RK Khan discharged him, and they took him to Hillcrest SAPS. He stayed at Hillcrest, but they brought him to court late,” he said. The matter was adjourned until next month. The 34-year-old man is alleged to have kidnapped a 28-year-old woman in Allandale in Pietermaritzburg on August 6. It is alleged that he drove her to Hillcrest where he locked her in a room at a B&B. He allegedly raped the woman more than once. According to the charge sheet, the man, while held at the Hillcrest SAPS, was provided with two months’ medication which was supposed to have been dispensed daily,as per the doctor’s prescription, and under supervision. Rogers said the man overdosed and fell into a coma. He then had requested that, due to inadequate supervision at the police cells, the man be taken to Westville Prison when discharged. This was after Rogers claimed that the Hillcrest police had failed to call an ambulance despite other inmates in the cell screaming that the man was dying and needed urgent help. Daily News