Durban - MYSTERY surrounds the fatal shooting of a Tactical Response Team (TRT) officer, who was ambushed with his fiancée on the M35 in Umbumbulu by unknown men armed with AK-47s on Saturday night. Sergeant Msizeni Dludla, 40, died at the scene, while his fiancée Malindi Hlela was taken to hospital where she is fighting for her life. It is alleged that gunmen in a vehicle opened fire on Dludla’s white VW Jetta, killing him. Detectives, including those from the Hawks, attended the scene and picked up 30 spent AK-47 cartridges. The police said they did not know the motive for the attack, despite there being witnesses, including passersby and motorists, but said it seemed clear that the gunmen had targeted Dludla’s car. Hawks provincial spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said: “Hawks officers from the Durban Serious Organised Crime Unit are investigating a case of murder. At this stage, the motive of the shooting is unknown and no arrests have been made.” Dludla, a police officer for more than 10 years, and a father of two children aged seven and 10, was based at uMlazi Police Station and lived in Mangazini, in Efolweni. His brother-in-law, Njabulo Hlela, spoke to the Daily News yesterday about the terrifying scene the family was called to at about 7pm. “We received a call to rush there and we found lots of police vehicles. There were scores of people from around the area at the crime scene, where my brother-in-law’s car had been cordoned off. As I walked closer, I heard people crying and shouting my brother-in-law’s name. “My sister had already been rushed to the hospital. I came closer and I saw his bullet-riddled car. Before I could see his body lying lifeless inside, I knew that the worst had happened. He was dead,” said Hlela. He described the scene as gruesome and the killing as “heartless and an evil act against a human being, let alone an officer of the law”. Hlela had been with Dludla that afternoon, when he came to drop off clothes for his youngest child, who had been visiting them for the weekend. “He seemed to be in a rush and didn’t stay for long, as my sister was waiting for him in the car. Little did I know I was seeing him for the last time. Three hours later, we received a call to rush to the M35, we were not told why.” Hlela said the families were battling to come to terms with Dludla’s death and had not informed the children about what had happened to their parents. “Looking back a few weeks ago, I am reminded of the talks I had with him. He told me about how short life is and his desperation to marry my sister. He had paid the lobolo. He wanted to make things right by marrying my sister. But death came before he could fulfil his wish.” Malindi Hlela survived the shooting with a bullet to the chest. Her family was grateful and are praying for her speedy recovery. “We managed to speak to her briefly on the phone last night, since visitors are not allowed in hospitals. We hope that those responsible will be caught and brought to book, and possibly shed light on what was the motive of this terrible incident,” said Hlela. Dludla’s commander, Colonel Nkosinathi Shandu, described his death as a tragedy. “Our condolences go to his family and friends. He will be sorely missed,” said Shandu. Anyone with information on the investigation can contact Captain Mukesh Panday at 0798811113. Daily News