Durban - Montclair Park where acting Metro Police captain Dumisani Zondi who was stabbed to death last week, has been described as a local drinking and drug hang out spot by the ward councillor. This comes after Zondi was killed at the park when he tried to reprimand an unruly group that was also drinking in public. Zondi was stabbed in the back and died on the scene. He had been with the metro police for 13 years and was made acting captain at the Albert Park metro station last year. Montclair ward councillor Gavin Hegter said Montclair Park, where Zondi was killed, had become a local drinking and drug hang out. Over the past three years he had been engaging with Montclair police and Metro Police to try and get the area cleaned up so it can be used by the community for its intended purpose. Hegter said the park had an outdoor gym, soccer field and multi-use courts. “People are scared to go there because of the illegal activities,” said Hegter. “It’s just sad and I send my condolences to the family but it’s horrific that it has come to this. Hopefully the poor man’s life wasn’t lost in vain. Maybe now the authorities will make an effort.” Hegter said his appeals to authorities had fallen on deaf ears. They would make a few visits and then fade away. The councillor also said when engaging with the SAPS, he was told what he expected two officials to do in a group of 30 to 40 public drinkers. Hegter said it was very concerning and the community was not happy. Police had not commented by the time of publication. Meanwhile, Zondi’s brother, Nhlanhla Zondi, said the family was now hopeful that the person suspected of killing their brother would be arrested soon. “The problem is that he hasn’t been arrested yet but there is hope that he could be arrested anytime now,” said Zondi. He said he was still in disbelief that his brother had been murdered. “For me, it’s like I’m dreaming and I’ll still wake up because it doesn’t seem like this really happened,” said Zondi. He also said they were hoping to bury Dumisani on Saturday but that would depend on funeral arrangements. Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said officers from the Durban Serious Organised Crime unit were still pursuing the suspect and no arrest had been made yet. Daily News