Durban - THE silence from the police is deafening for the families of five women found murdered in and near a sugar cane field at Mtwalume, south of Durban. The families of Zama Chiliza, Akhona Gumede, Nosipho Gumede, Nelisiwe Dube and Jabu Mqadi expressed their concerns when Premier Sihle Zikalala visited them on Tuesday for a wreath- laying ceremony and to launch a 365-day campaign against gender-based violence (GBV). Zikalala’s visit follows the discovery of the charred remains of a woman in a sugar cane field on Saturday, days after the man accused of the first five murders committed suicide in police custody. The latest discovery appeared to be an isolated incident, said the Premier’s Office, but locals were not convinced. Zikalala’s visit left them hopeful, but the silence from the police left them feeling hopeless, they said. Jeffrey Phehlukwayo, father of Akhona Gumede, 25, said he felt the police were reckless in monitoring the suspect who committed suicide. “I’ve thrown in the towel on whether we’ll ever get answers (on the motive for the murders),” he said. Phehlukwayo said it was scary in the area, especially since the murders were not ending. They would only feel safe once the killings stopped. “When someone is at the bus stop and a car stops and a lift is offered, they do not accept. I tell them not to accept; it’s better to wait for public transport,” he said. Gladys Gumede was mourning her granddaughter, Nosipho, 16. Gumede said they would be relieved once the police caught the culprits behind the latest murder. “There was hope they would catch them, but now it’s quiet. There are no answers,” she said. “It was said the man who killed himself had written a list of who he was involved with, but now there are no answers on who those people are. Maybe we’re living with them here.” Lungile Mqadi said her sister Jabu had disappeared in July 2018 and was found the same year in the same area as the other bodies. Jabu, 41, had gone to a local supermarket and never returned. Mqadi said they were hopeful the killer would be found now that they were being visited by officials after years of silence. She did not believe women in the area were safe. “We’re not seeing anything right now, things that help us. We see that it’s (murder) continuing. There’s nothing happening that makes us feel relieved,” said Mqadi. Zikalala said more than five women had been killed in the area and it seemed they were raped before being killed, but the matter was still under investigation, even though the alleged killer had committed suicide. “While the police have their own role to continue to investigate, we need to look at societal factors that are a cause of this situation. We need to work together with communities in efforts to bring back ubuntu (humanity), in efforts to eliminate drugs and all criminal activities that are prevalent in the area,” said Zikalala. This started with the way boys are raised, being exposed to drugs, alcohol and other social ills, he said. He said there was more patrolling in the area and the local station commander had been replaced and new police officers added to the area. Meanwhile, the DA spokesperson on Community Safety and Liaison, Sharon Hoosen, said 14 women had been reported missing in the area - six were found dead, six remain missing and two had escaped their captors. Hoosen said the DA believed the solution was to permanently increase the workforce at Hibberdene police station, align with security companies to provide additional visibility, strengthen the alliance between the community and police, provide resources to help police conduct their duties, and ensure compulsory training of officers. Daily News