Durban - AS RESIDENTS in the uMzinyathi district battle with water shortages, a municipal water tanker has been spotted delivering water to a councillor’s house. IFP councillor Bhekinkosi Madondo says he paid for the water, but the UDM has called for an investigation, and for action to be taken if Madondo fails to provide proof that he paid for it. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said in a statement: “Councillor Madondo should share the official invoice for the purchase of the water, as well as the government delivery service. "We are calling on the uMzinyathi municipality to immediately suspend councillor Madondo and investigate this incident. Should it be the case that Madondo has been abusing government resources, he and the government officials involved should be subjected to full disciplinary measures.” Madondo is a councillor at Kwamshayazafe, Msinga, near Greytown. The truck that delivered water to his home had municipal branding on it. Contacted for comment, Madondo said he was advised by district mayor Petros Ngubane not to speak to the media or comment on the matter. Ngubane said the municipality would follow up on the allegations and that appropriate action would be taken if there was any wrongdoing. “He has to provide proof of purchase. We met on Thursday and talked about this matter. The IFP then requested another meeting, which should take place during the week, where we will work towards resolving the matter,” he said. The uMzinyathi and uThukela district municipalities were recently placed under administration by Co-operative Governance MEC Sipho Hlomuka. ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said one of the issues the administrator, Themba Mavundla, would be looking at was abuse of power. “There’s a huge administrative challenge at that municipality, and the fact that an administrator was appointed is testimony to that. The municipal leadership is failing to rein in IFP councillors, and at the receiving end are community members whose needs are put second while those of those in leadership are put first,” he said. DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said public servants should put people first. "I also buy water and it can be difficult to provide an invoice because one hires any person who has a water tanker for delivery. But in this case, if the truck has a municipal label and the councillor has indeed abused his position at the expense of the community, then he is in that position to serve his own interests,” he said. Daily News