Durban - THE lack of water at 1000 schools in the uMkhanyakude district may soon be a thing of the past following an initiative by the Department of Education to introduce a boreholes programme. While the lack of running water was a challenge for more than 3500 schools in the country, schools and communities in the uMkhanyakude district in northern KwaZulu-Natal are the hardest hit. On Monday, Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu visited Khulani Special School in uMkhanyakude district to launch this historic programme. Mshengu said the Covid-19 pandemic had revealed that a large number of schools in the province and in the country were still without running water and as a result were still using pit latrine toilets, causing a health hazard. “We as the department are required to provide running water for the washing of hands and sanitation, while the government and the municipality are working on addressing the water issue in the area,” said Mshengu. Residents welcomed the department’s initiative, but urged that the government extend the borehole programme to communities. Resident Sabelo Gumede had written numerous letters to the uMkhanyakude district municipality and the Department of Water and Sanitation complaining about the lack of water for several years, without success. His village and the neighbouring villages as well as schools are still without water. “We are desperate for water. We consume water from deep, dangerous holes with cows, goats and other wild animals,” said Gumede. He had also written to the Department of Co- operative Governance and Traditional Affairs in the province “Communities are left with no choice but to find water from the most unhygienic sources, including digging up their own boreholes and pupils forced to take water from home to school. Although the initiative by the department to assist with water supply to 1000 schools is welcomed and appreciated, we appeal for the government to also assist the community as well, because the pupils will be going home to no water,” he said. The DA spokesperson on Education, Dr Imran Keeka, said while every government initiative aimed at improving the lives of South Africans must be welcomed, there must also be a balance to ensure that the projects were properly funded and sustainable in the long term. Keeka said the programme came at a time when the department’s finances are already excessively constrained with projections of massive over- expenditure, and even a possible penalty by the Treasury. “It is also important to ensure that water supply also reaches the surrounding communities,” he said. Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department only acted after feasibility studies were conducted. “For example, the spot where the borehole is constructed is not just done anywhere, but environmental studies are done first to identify the spot on the school property,” he said. Daily News