Durban - Corruption has infested the SA Police Service to the extent that public confidence and trust in the police have been seriously eroded, says Institute for Security Studies researcher Johan Burger. “Unless this corruption is effectively tackled, it will be almost impossible to fight corruption in the public and private sectors.” Burger was speaking after five senior police officers were fired from the service this week for fraud and corruption. Also this week, Simon Mzayifani Madonsela, former deputy head of Hawks in KwaZulu-Natal, was sentenced to eight years imprisonment. Madonsela was granted leave to appeal his conviction in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court tomorrow. National Prosecuting Authority’s provincial spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson Kara said Madonsela was convicted of two counts of corruption amounting to R28 000. It is alleged that Madonsela’s unit had investigated the disappearance of a woman. His unit closed the docket. Kara said Madonsela allegedly went to the family of the missing woman and told them that his superiors wanted to close the docket and that he needed R40 000 from them to ensure that the docket remained open. “The family could not pay the requested amount but gave him R25 000. He later requested a further R3 000. They eventually got frustrated as the matter was not proceeding and laid a charge against him,” Kara said. Since 2017, a task team has been conducting an investigation into tender fraud related to the marking of police vehicles. During these investigations police, private company directors and employees are alleged to have been involved in an elaborate act to defraud the state. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said the men will be subjected to criminal prosecution. Seven officers have been tried departmentally, found guilty and dismissed. Further, in March, Zein Mohammed, 49, a warrant officer at Isipingo SAPS, approached a tavern owner, and asked for R1 500 to sort out a fine and to notify him of any raids beforehand. After accepting the cash, members of the Anti-Corruption Unit arrested Mohammed. He pleaded guilty in the Durban Regional Court last week and was sentenced to seven years imprisonment, with five years suspended. Deputy national commissioner Bonang Mgwenya was fired last month for her alleged involvement in a tender scam to the value of R191 million, dating to 2017. The Daily News