Durban - Restaurants in uMhlanga Village and nearby are trying to extinguish a fire caused by a voice note that went viral this week. The voice note alleges that the village has become a Covid-19 hot spot, with owners and staff testing positive for the virus. However, restaurant owners and managers said the message was false. Owners and managers said they adhered to Covid-19 regulations, such as regularly sanitising, staff wearing masks and social distancing. Operations manager at four restaurants at the village, Ken Schoerie, said they had spent a fortune to follow Covid-19 protocols and now they have been implicated in the voice note which was messing with the survival of restaurants after what happened with the national lockdown when they were not allowed to trade. “Bottom line, the damage has been done,” said Schoerie. “We fought with the government, did everything to reopen our doors and get our businesses to survive, now this. I can’t believe it’s happened during this time. You can see how quiet the village is. People are calling and cancelling bookings. It’s inexcusable.” uMhlanga Taco Zulu co-owner Quwen Ramsay said he heard the voice note earlier in the week and it traced back to someone they knew. The person said they were not trying to defame anyone but it was his friend who forwarded it and it went viral. Ramsay said their restaurant was closed for four days because they were sorting out a gas line. “The allegations are not true. We were not closed because of Covid,” said Ramsay. He said Dante’s had three shareholders, not five as mentioned in the voice note. Ramsay said the allegations were defamatory and could lead to business closures and job losses. He stressed that businesses were complying with Covid-19 regulations and every day there were better systems put in place. “We’re doing the best we can with the little that we have for safety and compliance,” said Ramsay. Lord Prawn uMhlanga manager Gerhard Rothmann said: “He mentioned four restaurants. He’s not evenmentioning us but we can feel theimpact.” Rothmann said when he got to work yesterday more tables had cancelled due to the spread of a lie. The Daily News