Durban - Pietermaritzburg born paediatric registrar Dr Sarah Dlamini has won the Integrity Icon Award. It is a global campaign by Accountability Lab, a movement to celebrate, encourage and connect honest civil servants who demonstrate exemplary integrity in their work. “There is a lot in South Africa and public service that can make you feel disheartened and frustrated, but I have a gift of a supernatural endowment of hope. I have a duty not only to protect it, but to dispense it to people around me,” said Dlamini. Dlamini, 36, spoke after she was nominated and then chosen as the winner on Friday. She obtained her medical degree at the University of KwaZulu-Natal Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, served her internship in Durban and did her community service in Mpumalanga. She did a three-year stint at the Centre for the Aids programme of research in South Africa (Caprisa). She then joined the public health and specialised in paediatric care. Dlamini, a mother of two children aged 9 and 10, said she grew up with a desire to serve the public. “I accepted the award not only for myself but for the many public servants who do just that,” she said “There is something very special about being able to help people who don't otherwise have access to health care. That is why I became a doctor, because I want to help people.” Dlamini rotates through all the different hospitals in Durban every three months. “To me, integrity means bringing the best of yourself. I think one of the biggest criticisms about public health is that there is so much apathy in the staff. I have a Blog to write about my experiences. What I write communicates my passion to see public servants activated and supportive within their communities to give out the best in the environment that we are in.” Dlamini’s colleague and a paediatric supervisor, Dr Noxolo Nsele, said: “You won't bring about change if you don't understand the people that you are working with. You are like their (patient’s) last hope. You are dealing with depressed children and parents. You have to bring about that hope in a person's life.  Sarah brings hope to those kids every day.” Her mother, Fiona Bulman, said Dlamini would be walking down the passage and she would stop and sing a nursery rhyme in Zulu, or she would put her arms around a mother who had lost a baby. “It's that sort of compassion that I rejoice in,” she said. Dlamini attended Ridge Junior Primary, Pelham Senior Primary and Pietermaritzburg Girls High School. The Daily News