Durban - There has been an increase in illegal hunting inside and outside the protected areas in the Nkandla and surrounding forests, Ezemvelo KwaZulu-Natal Wildlife (Ezemvelo) said on Thursday. This after the IFP sounded the alarm at what it called the destruction of wildlife, including endangered species, after it was tipped off about rampant wild animal killings in the Nkandla area. The party condemned the actions of the hunters, saying they are mercilessly killing wild animals for consumption and for the sale of their skins and hides in the province. Wildlife conservation in forests of Nkandla, Qhudeni, Ngotshe, Amatikulu and other surrounding areas are under attack, following the slaying of wild animals by so-called “hunters”, said spokesperson for community safety and liaison in the KZN legislature, Blessed Gwala. “It is alleged that these criminals breed a particular type of dog in order to carry out their operation,” he said. The IFP is firmly against the unlawful and unsupervised hunting of wild animals. Gwala said this can also lead to the extinction of endangered species. “It is alleged that those behind the wildlife killing operation are intimidating Ezemvelo Wildlife guards. We call upon the law to intervene, and to bring the perpetrators to book regardless of their status in the community. Local communities respect the fact that hunting should be a seasonal practice. “However, this senseless hunting will lead to permanent damage in the wildlife conservation cycle,” Gwala added. He called on the local amakhosi and izinduna to work co-operatively with police to put an end to what he called self-serving, reckless behaviour of the “so-called hunters”. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife spokesperson Musa Mntambo said the increase in illegal hunting was not only in public game reserves as a number of private game reserves had also experienced some form of hunting inside their establishments. “The increase was first noticed during the lockdown period where people were hunting for pot,” he said. Pot is an action of hunting game for food or monetary gain rather than for sport. Mntambo said Ezemvelo warned those who may be involved in any kind of illegal hunting to cease their illegal activities. He reminded hunters of the Nature Conservation Ordinance No15 of 1974 (42:2) which states that “If any person hunts or captures game on land on which he is trespassing, or if any per-son trespasses upon any land on which game is or is likely to be found with any weapon or trap in his possession, or accompanied by any dog, he shall be guilty of an offence.” “The sentence for contravention of the said section above may be up to one year direct imprisonment or a R5000 or both such fine or imprisonment. Our staff will continue to enforce the law without fear or favour. Intimidation of law enforcement personnel is normal, but it does not result in Ezemvelo staff failing to implement the applicable laws when they are broken,” Mntambo said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said they will investigate the allegations. She appealed to anyone with information to contact 10111. The Daily News