Durban - Five months after the offices of a KwaZulu-Natal company were raided by the Hawks for alleged falsified invoices to the Department of Transport for over R200 million, the department has remained mum on any internal action taken against implicated officials. In July the Sunday Times reported that the Hawks raided the offices of Dreykon-Klus Civils investigating fraud and corruption regarding falsified invoices allegedly issued by the company to the department where the company allegedly received over R200m in payment for the 2015/2016 financial year . At the time, Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said an investigation commissioned by the department into payments made in February and March 2016 identified serious irregularities and fraudulent documentation in transactions to a value of R227m. This week, Ncalane, in response to The Daily News questions about the department’s investigation and whether any action had been taken internally against those implicated, said he could not comment. “We discussed the matter and the conclusion we arrived at is that the matter is still the subject of intense investigation and we therefore cannot comment on it. However, as the department we can confirm that we are working with all the competent investigating arms of the state to see this matter finalised expeditiously,” he said. Hawks spokesperson Simphiwe Mhlongo said the matter was still under investigation when asked whether there had been any further raids and what the falsified invoices were for. “It's still under investigation. At the time we went there we were seizing evidence for investigation purposes. Remember, there are forensic investigators that are dealing with it while we deal with the criminal element on our side. We were sent to seize these documents so that they could analyse them and file a report. Only when the investigation is finalised will I be able to say how many invoices were fabricated and how many relate to work not done at all. There have been no arrests made." Dreykon-Klus Civils is based in Dundee and the Daily News first reached out to Mark Klusener, one of the Klus Civils directors. But his cellphone number went to voicemail. A SMS was sent with no response. Another director of the company, David Jakwe, declined to comment. “We don't have any comment on the story,” he said. A sub-contractor based in Dundee, who did not want to be named fearing victimisation, said had work that was claimed for from the department been done, they would have also benefited from the fruits of this work. “It's sad to think that we are struggling to make ends meet and companies we hope to get our daily bread from falsify invoices for such large sums of money. When things like this happen it affects the smaller companies that work with these huge game players. “Had the work claimed to have been done done, we would have benefited as suppliers as some of us do have trucks. We had hoped that with B-BBEE coming into effect, previously disadvantaged entrepreneurs would get a chance to prosper but this does not seem to be the case. It is disadvantaged communities who find themselves without proper roads as money is being looted. Officials implicated must be caught taking the bread off our tables." According to the Sunday Times story, the company was contracted to do road works outside Utrecht, Bulwer and Impendle. The Daily News