Durban- Embattled eThekwini Municipality city manager Sipho Nzuza’s wife, Bagcinele, is now accused number 18 in the R430 million Durban Solid Waste (DSW) fraud and corruption saga,alongside her husband, who is accused number 17. Bagcinele, 51, appeared before the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court yesterday and was released on R30 000 bail. She allegedly facilitated the fitting of a built-in kitchen at her mother-in- law’s house. One of the service providers implicated in the multimillion-rand DSW tender fraud case allegedly paid R18 000 for the new kitchen. Not much is known about Bagcinele, except that she is originally from Cape Town, according to her status on Facebook. A source in the municipality said Bagcinele was sold out by one of the co-accused who had close ties with DSW. “He (the accused) decided that he can’t be in the mess while there are others who benefited, but remained free from blame. More arrests can be seen if more of the accused can break the silence and it would seem that this is the beginning of more arrests to come,” the source said. The source cannot be named, because they are not permitted to speak to the media. By August last year, Nzuza’s salary was R3 296 589.63. According to the charge sheet, Bagcinele is charged with conspiracy to commit fraud, corruption and money laundering. Yesterday, the State did not oppose bail and the investigating officer had verified her residential address. The bail conditions were that she: • Surrender her passport and not to apply for any travel documents. • Contact the investigating officer 48 hours before leaving the province when the need arises and must do the same on return. • Must also have no contact with any person in the eThekwini Municipality’s supply chain management. Bagcinele’s husband Nzuza is out on R50 000 bail, following his arrest on March 10 by the Hawks National Clean Audit Task Team on allegations of fraud and corruption amounting to the loss of millions of rand within the eThekwini Municipality. The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) said Bagcinele’s case was postponed to December 10 when the other 17 accused, including former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede, were also expected back in court. Gumede’s lawyer Bulelani Mazomba said the National Prosecuting Authority has confirmed that they will be ready to get the case going against his client on December 10. The Nzuza couple had not commented by the time of publication. The Daily News