Durban - Opposition parties expressed their concern over the lack of security at reservoirs, while the eThekwini mayor suspected contractors sabotaged infrastructure after the main outlet valves at the Montville Reservoir in Cato Manor that supplies water to most parts of the city and neighbouring areas were tampered with, leaving areas without water. Security concerns were also raised in December last year when human remains were found in a reservoir in Verulam during a routine inspection. Preliminary investigations revealed that the reservoir shutter doors were broken into. DA eThekwini spokesperson on human settlement and infrastructure Mzamo Billy conducted an oversight visit at the reservoir and said he was shocked at the level of security. “When we visited the one thing that became apparent is that there was no security, there was only security because an incident of sabotage had occurred. It’s not only a lack of on-site security that is of concern but also the facilities that are concerning. The old fencing around the reservoir does not show that the reservoir is an important infrastructure,” said Billy. He said more concerning was that if people easily gained access to commit sabotage, what would stop them from adding something into the water supply? IFP executive council member Mdu Nkosi called for the municipality to be proactive and appealed for a proper course of action to tackle the issue. “We are disappointed that an important municipal infrastructure was not properly secured. Municipal officials know that if people tampered with the valves residents would be highly impacted,” said Nkosi. “I would address this issue of sabotage, whether it be related to factionalism or contractors ...” said Nkosi. eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said they suspected contractors of carrying out sabotage to the reservoir, because they were not awarded tenders. “It’s important for people to know that if they want jobs in eThekwini they should follow the proper channels. Not getting an opportunity doesn’t mean sabotaging the infrastructure,” said Kaunda. He said the city and its employees have agreed to open cases. “We’re in talks with the KZN police for an investigation to be conducted, which includes intelligence on the ground and finding out who is involved. Whoever is caught should face the full might of the law ...” said Kaunda. He said they had similar problems with water tankers; those who had them would destroy the city’s infrastructure to ensure they were awarded contracts. “That’s why we will increase the number of water tankers in the municipality, which will be owned by us, and employ people to work for the city. That way we will not have to rely on private vehicles, because they are the ones that close our water so we can hire them when there is no water,” said Kaunda. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said vandalism was rampant and addressing it would require a comprehensive strategy. “We are currently deliberating methods to curtail vandalism of infrastructure, but at the moment deploying security to everywhere there is vandalism is not something we can do as the city is not financially sound,” said Mayisela. He asked the public to be vigilant and act against those who they knew were deliberately vandalising infrastructure. In October, a number of sub-stations were broken into and set alight, including Overport, Westville, Mayville and KwaMashu. It was believed that disgruntled contractors had torched the sub-stations after their contracts were not renewed. However, the city had denied this. But Mayisela confirmed that there were “multiple acts of sabotage by sub-contractors to its city-wide infrastructure”. He said a number of substations were broken into, vandalised, switched off and some of them torched, leading to multiple power outages across the city. The Daily News