SNE MASUKU IT will take years for the country’s education system to recover from the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Basic Education minister Angie Motshekga said yesterday. Briefing the media on the disruption of the 2020 academic year caused by the pandemic, Motshekga said a three-year curriculum recovery plan would be implemented in all grades from next year. She explained that not only did the pandemic cost pupils 47 days away from the classroom, but about 700 pupils had tested positive for the virus and 1493 teachers had died of Covid-19. She said 15% of pupils did not return to school due to many reasons, one of them being that some parents were scared to send their children back in the middle of the pandemic. While the 15% dropout rate could not be accounted for, Motshekga said the figures and which grades they were in would only be confirmed when schools reopened next year. Motshekga said there was an exceptional attendance of close to 100% of grade 12 pupils. Motshekga paid tribute to the teachers who risked their lives by teaching during this period and ensuring that the curriculum was completed in limited time. "The disruptions of 2020 will need even a longer time frame to address. We have a three-year curriculum recovery plan that will be implemented from 2021 from grades 1 to 12. The disruptions had resulted in us trimming down the curriculum due to the rotational school attendance plan, we only had limited time to cover the trimmed curriculum“, she said. She said the unintended learning losses occurred due to extended closure of schools. "Remember, some pupils only came back to school in September. Pupils returned in phases.We had to focus on deep and with the advice of the experts we identified core skills needed for that grade and leave out certain topics," she said. To assist schools in their catch-up programme, Motshekga said teacher assistants would be deployed to schools, while school general assistants would be deployed to assist with the challenges of Covid-19. These included cleaners who would ensure that schools were hygienic and adhered to Covid-19 regulations. She said while there was a possibility that schools may reopen in the second wave of the pandemic, the department had not yet factored the second wave into preparations for 2021. She said her department would have the whole of the December holidays and almost the whole month of January to prepare and be informed by developments. The 2020 academic year was also marred by controversy following the leaking of two National Senior certificate Exam papers.The department ordered a rewrite of the two papers, but this was challenged by several organisations representing pupils and by the SA Democratic Teachers Union. This decision for all matric pupils to rewrite the leaked mathematics paper 2 and physical science paper 2 was set aside by the court. Motshega said the court’s ruling did not deal with the core issues presented by the department in its answering affidavit. She said her department would approach the courts saying that they believed that the findings of the court were in discord with applicable basic education legislation. Basic Education director general Mathanzima Mweli said three exam papers were leaked, including the business studies paper, but fortunately this was reported before the paper could be written, and was replaced with a back-up paper. "Our investigation had established that the source of the leaks was the government printers in Gauteng," he said . Motshekga is expected to announce the 2020 matric results on February 22.