Durban – THREE years on and the restaurant in Bulwer Park, Glenwood, built by the eThekwini Municipality, still stands vacant. In April last year, council approval was granted to lease out the restaurant by public tender and the supply management process was under way for the tender to be advertised. Ward councillor Mmabatho Tembe was concerned the building would be vandalised and occupied by vagrants the longer it stayed vacant. “My concerns are the same as last year as the restaurant is still unoccupied. In August, an update I received from the City was that the item in question had been submitted to the supply chain management to be placed on the Bid Spec agenda. A trench caused by recent rains was fixed, otherwise there had been no other developments on the property,” said Tembe. Yesterday, municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the building was originally intended for use as a restaurant with a sustainable fresh vegetable garden for the lessee to develop and use in the restaurant. “The City is currently finalising some legal processes before this can go to tender. This would have been done sooner had it not been for the delays due to Covid-19 and the nationwide lockdown. Once the contract is finalised, the paperwork and tender will be put out calling for expressions of interest to run the restaurant,” said Mayisela. Another municipal building that was deteriorating and has been a concern was The Star Seaside Children’s Home in North Beach which was earmarked for social housing to make affordable rental accommodation for households with monthly incomes in the range of R3 500 to R15 000. The building, which had already been derelict and an eyesore three years ago, is provided with security by the City. Mayisela said council approval was granted in June 2018 to enter into a long-term lease with approved Social Housing Institutions as approved by the Human Settlements Unit (Social Housing Department) for the development of social housing and gap market housing.  Last year the appointed Social Housing Institution (SHI) was busy with the detailed designs and the necessary funding applications to the Social Housing Regulatory Authority. “The property was advertised for Public Participation Process as required by Asset Transfer Regulation for properties that are valued above R10 million. We are currently addressing the queries raised by National Treasury and a report on the outcome of Public Participation will be tabled before council,” said Mayisela. DA Caucus leader Nicole Graham said while her party felt there was a greater need for gap housing in the inner city, they always believed the City would benefit considerably from selling this prime real estate. “I’d be very interested to see the outcome of the public participation and we would make the consideration before council.” Daily News