Durban - The man accused of stabbing to death an LGBTQ activist in the streets of Umlazi  in an apparent homophobic attack showed no remorse as he made his first court appearance on Monday. As members of the public, including Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza filled the court benches Mvuyisi Mabuti Moguda, 30, walked into the court room, did not look around and showed no emotions. He said through his lawyer he intended to apply for bail despite the State saying that it would oppose bail.  The case was adjourned to next Monday for a formal bail application. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He is accused of stabbing Lindokuhle Cele, a well-known lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTI) activist and musician in Umlazi on Thursday in what his family say was a homophobic attack. He was stabbed multiple times outside a butchery in full view of several people who did not come to his aid. He was rushed to hospital where he later died. Speaking outside court, Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza said it was sad that did not show remorse. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Khoza urged the people not to discriminate people against their sexual orientation. "He was stabbed three times in the spinal cord and once in the eye and the knife was left stuck in the eye," Khoza said. "This show his attacker that he had absolute anger against homophobic.  We are not going to take anything less than a, life imprisonment. It was a gruesome act. For someone to stab someone three times in the spinal cord and in the eye leaving the knife there. Through this case we want to send out s strong message," she said. Later, the MEC and other members of the community visited Cele's home to pay their condolences to the family. Daily News