Durban - A woman who was allegedly being kidnapped by two men in Morningside was rescued on Wednesday by local private security companies who responded to her cries for help. According to Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios, the woman was rescued from the attempted kidnapping. "One of our officers was patrolling Venice Road just after 6.30pm when he passed a Volkswagen Polo with two male occupants," said Mathios. "Our officer heard screams coming from the car. He immediately called for backup," Mathios said. When the two reaction officers instructed the vehicle to pull over, they discovered an injured and bleeding woman in distress on the back seat. "The two suspects were ordered out of the car and detained until Berea SAPS members arrived," Mathios said. Kyle van Reenen, spokesman for Marshall Security, said security guards were called to the corners of Venice and Farrell Roads, in Morningside at about 7pm after reports of an assault. "On arrival, members of another private security company had intercepted an alleged domestic violence situation. Two men had been apprehended by their officers," he said. He said a 30-year-old woman was found to be acting erratically and extremely aggressively. "It is believed that she was under the influence of a mind-altering substance. The woman began assaulting paramedics as they attempted to assess her," he said. Paramedics were not injured. Van Reenen said police intervened and the woman was taken along with the two men and the vehicle they were travelling in, a silver Volkswagen Polo, to Berea SAPS for further investigation. "Further questioning revealed that the woman was, in fact, a sex worker, and a dispute had taken place between her and the two men. The vehicle they were travelling in checked out to be not stolen and the men were released, as the woman declined to open a case against them," he said. The woman was counselled by a local trauma counselling team, he said. The Daily News sent questions to the office of the KZN police media centre. They had not responded at the time of publishing. * The story will be updated to reflect their comments when this publication receives it. Daily News