Durban - The SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) in KwaZulu-Natal, after another shooting near Inanda, is appealing to the public for help with any information about the shooters or who might have sent them. This was after seven passengers were injured when the minibus taxi they were travelling in came under a hail of bullets near Inanda on Wednesday night. One of the injured passengers died in hospital yesterday morning. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Inanda SAPS were investigating a case of murder and attempted murder. “It is alleged on July 22 at 7pm, a taxi transporting passengers was shot at in Ohlange along the M25 by unknown suspects. Six passengers were injured and taken to hospital for medical attention. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated.” This is the second such shooting in a week involving a taxi on the M25 near Inanda. It will be two weeks tomorrow since a 55-year-old passenger died in a taxi after suspects carrying high-calibre rifles fired at it. A video of the shooting was circulated on social media. The taxi was carrying 15 passengers, and seven were injured. It took place on the M25 near the Inanda Newtown B turn off. At the time, the police confirmed that the taxi was affiliated to the Ndwedwe and District Taxi Association, and was driven from Durban to the uMzinyathi area. The dead passenger was found slumped on the floor inside the taxi and 23 rifle cartridges were found at the scene where passengers in a white bakkie shot at the taxi. Santaco spokesperson Sifiso Shange said they condemned acts of violence and that such incidents tarnished the image and reputation of the taxi industry. “We pray for the recovery of the injured passengers so that they may return to their families. Such incidents are a huge concern to the council leaders. We keep asking ourselves what happened that made people revert back to guns to resolve issues and differences. “We ask anyone who might know the perpetrators or who sent them to come forward so they can be arrested,” said Shange. He said the council strongly condemned acts of violence. “It’s concerning that when people don’t see eye to eye they ambush each other. We ask for calm among commuters as we will work with the police and commuters to get to the bottom of this,” he said. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Bheki Ntuli said: “It cannot be business as usual when we are continuously mourning the loss of innocent passengers because of taxi-related violence. I have tasked the police to intensify visibility along the area. We cannot allow such heartless criminals to continue roaming the streets.” Daily News