Durban - The Education Department in KwaZulu-Natal paid R9.50 for each sanitary towel pack, of which more than 2 700 000 were unnecessarily bought as part of the department’s project to distribute free sanitary towels to needy girls, while 64269 packs were not delivered to schools. This was revealed in a forensic report presented by MEC Kwazi Mshengu yesterday following an investigation into the project conducted by Phumlani Mkhize and Associates. Department spokesperson Sihle Mlotshwa confirmed to the Daily News that each pack of sanitary towels cost the department R9.50. Mshengu said his department was determined to recover losses incurred as a result of sanitary pads not being delivered to schools by service providers by following legal processes. He said the department had lost money as a result of the unnecessary procurement of pads that were over-supplied to schools. During the implementation of the project, allegations of the oversupply to non-deserving schools and possible flouting of processes were raised by unions, who blew the whistle on possible corruption. Mshengu said the investigation established that the R20 million 2016 pilot project was not monitored to establish if the pads had reached the right beneficiaries. The initial project was expanded in 2017 with one batch of R44m and a second of R54m. In total, the department had approved just under R130m to procure sanitary towels. The number of girls to benefit was determined by statistics obtained from the Education Management Information System for the 2016 school year, but to be used in 2017 when the project was implemented. “Not only were these numbers incorrect, but they were known to be unreliable. No evaluation of the pilot project was done. There was no guide to the distribution and implementation of this project. The department was misled in approving the procurement of unnecessary sanitary towels,” said the report. Mshengu added that the issue of surplus stock was identified at a departmental meeting and a decision was taken to deliver the surplus to the districts and head offices. After submissions were made to department head Enock Nzama, the number of beneficiaries remained unchanged. “In quantifying the loss in relation to the distributed sanitary towels, it was established that 388680 packs were not delivered to the district offices. A further 64269 packs were not delivered to schools,” said the report. Mshengu said the investigation found there were no irregularities in the awarding of the contract and that the districts had no role in the implementation and monitoring of the project. On receipt of the report, he followed its recommendations by suspending three senior officials. Mshengu would not reveal the names of the officials as they were to undergo more departmental processes in relation to the allegations against them. “The department officials were identified as responsible for the mismanagement of the project which led to the oversupply and the financial loss to the department,” he said. Daily News