Durban - The Public Servants Association (PSA) is investigating allegations of negligence and putting the lives of Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) officers at risk. The PSA is the largest politically non-affiliated union in the public service representing more than 200 000 public-sector employees. The allegations were made by at least four officers based at the Midway Station (Escourt) against their boss, chief provincial inspector Veeresh Sewnarain yesterday. Sewnarain is alleged to have ignored proper Covid-19 regulations when an administration staff member tested positive with the virus last Tuesday. “We make contact with this colleague every day in the mornings, all of us. On Tuesday, she reported testing positive with Covid-19, but instead of the station being closed down for disinfection and sanitisation, Mr Sewnarain told us that those who want to get tested can take days from their annual leave and go get tested. Some of us took leave while others decided against that,” the officers stated. “In Ladysmith and Newcastle, the stations were closed recently after positive cases were reported. What is different in our station is that we have to take leave and go tested privately? “Of those who went to test privately, one came back with positive results but still the station was not closed. Yesterday (Wednesday), a third colleague came back with positive results but still nothing was done.” Sewnarain confirmed the positive cases and said all proper processes were followed in dealing with the situation. He referred the Daily News to the Department of Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane for official comment. Ncalane had not commented at the time of publishing. PSA provincial manager Charles Ngubane said they were investigating the allegations after they were brought to them by concerned (PSA) members. “Our representatives confirmed the cases and received contradictory information from the staff. Some said the facility was not closed for deep cleaning, while some said it was closed for a very short while. “The official in charge said he had followed the processes and that he has proof in the form of certificates confirming the cleaning and sanitisation of the station,” he said. Daily News