Durban - THE ban on schools being used as venues for church gatherings and for night school has left a Community Education and Training Centre with no option but to now operate from an informal settlement next to a busy tavern. Students and teachers at Vevile Community Learning Centre, which had been operating from Brooklyn Heights Primary School in Unit 11, Chatsworth, were left stranded two weeks ago when they returned for classes and were told they were no longer allowed to operate from the school as per the Department of Education Covid-19 regulations. Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department issued a circular stopping schools from being used for any activity other than teaching and learning, to protect teachers and pupils from contracting Covid-19. “Remember that our schools are sanitised every afternoon in preparation for the following day. We cannot open up our schools to be used by other people who use them as churches and other activities when there is no guarantee of screening and all other protocols for the pupils and teachers to come back to such an environment.” Mahlambi said the department would, however, attend to the matter to see how the department’s educational programme could be accommodated while maintaining the safety of the school pupils. However, the night school teachers, who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity, challenged the department’s view saying that their students were also parents of the same pupils at the school, coming from the same community and households. “It doesn’t make sense that the students attending the night classes are treated differently from the pupils who attended the day school, the risk is the same. Actually, the risk is more during the day as there are more people at school than there are for the night classes. Where are we supposed to go, because at the end of the day, the night school needs to be made accessible and to be in the community.” Another teacher said although the matter was reported, they were not assisted in finding an alternative venue. “The school manager managed to get us placed at a Zion church in the squatter camp and that is where we are currently operating from. The church is in the most dangerous area in Chatsworth. Our centre had a total of 45 candidates and due to the limited space and in order to observe social distancing, we have split the candidates into two groups,” she said. She said a woman was stabbed in the area recently and it caused the candidates and the teachers to panic. “We fear for our lives. We are forced to leave our cellphones and other valuables at home in case we get robbed. This place isn’t safe and is unsuitable for us to hold classes. There is a very busy tavern next door and the noise is worse on Fridays. “We worry about how we are going to write exams in this situation. The trial exams began on Friday.” When contacted for comment, Department of Higher Education spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi questioned who had authorised the move to the church premises. He said there were procedures to follow so that the department could take responsibility. “In this regard, an investigation must be conducted to enable us to respond fully,” he said. Daily News