Durban - AS ONE man began serving his sentence this week for the murder of his oThongathi girlfriend, police were yet to make arrests in relation to the murders of three teenagers and a woman. Police identified the two teens whose bodies were discovered in KwaMashu as Erin King, 18, and Xoliswa Mdletshe, 14. They also identified the bodies of a child and mother, dumped in KwaDabeka on Tuesday, as Smangele Smamane, 39, and Sbongakonke Mthembu, 12. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the mother and daughter had been reported missing at Newlands East Police Station.  They had allegedly been assaulted, burnt and strangled to death. It is alleged that Smamane was last seen on Monday, after being called by a neighbour to fetch her daughter, who had argued with a friend. Senzo Simamane, her police officer husband, said it was not the first time the children argued. “My wife went to the neighbour to fix things, but she never returned. “I decided to open missing persons’ cases,” he said. “What hurts is that we have a one-year-old daughter that she has left me with,” he said. Police said no one had been arrested for the murders. Erin and Xoliswa were described as inseparable. Even in death, they left the world together. Their bodies were found by a driving school instructor, with gunshot wounds to the head, in KwaMashu on September 29. They were last seen together by their families on September 25. Police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said Erin was from Newlands East and Xoliswa from KwaMashu. He said investigations were ongoing and anybody with information that can assist detectives should contact Brigadier Khumalo at 082 556 8642 or Captain Dawood at 082 556 8409, or Crime Stop at 08600 10111. Xoliswa had turned 14 in February and was a Grade 8 pupil at Nhlakanipho High School. Xoliswa’s aunt Philile Ndlovu said she was angry, but hoped that justice would be served. Ntokozo Mfeka, Xoliswa’s uncle, said she got along with her parents, did well in school, was respectful and a churchgoer. “We’re upset that, as a child, she died the way she did,” he said. Erin’s aunt Michelle Ogle said she was a good child “in her own special way, even though she did have her naughtiness, like going to KwaMashu and dropping out of school”. “If it was a normal accident, maybe we would be coping much better, but shot and just dumped there? “The killer just didn’t care. Who does that to a teenager? It’s very evil,” she said. Meanwhile, the Verulam Regional Court has sentenced Richard Zulu, 52, to life imprisonment for killing his girlfriend, Zameka Rhafuza, 33, at a farm in the Hilltop area in 2019. Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza said the pattern of violence and abuse directed at women and children was a serious concern. An alarming number of women and children had been murdered in the province, she said. “We introduced a number of campaigns to safeguard and protect the rights of women and children. We have conducted public education and awareness on the protection of women and children rights. “Unfortunately, we continue to see an increase in such cases,” she said. Daily News