Durban - Nomcebo Magudulela was the third woman to have allegedly been stabbed by her boyfriend. According to her family, the man alleged to have killed her, had stabbed two previous lovers. Yesterday, her sister Sphe Nxele said they had learned that the mother of the man’s child had been in a coma for six months after being stabbed by him. According to police, Magudulela, 36, was at home at Lindelani, in KwaDukuza, when a man broke in and stabbed her several times. She was able to run to a neighbour for help where she was rushed to hospital, but succumbed to her injuries. KwaDukuza police are investigating her murder and no arrests have yet been made. The family said Magudulela’s boyfriend, who she had been dating since February, had been abusive and she had decided on the day she was killed that she had had enough. A neighbour, who did not want to be named and fearing for her life, said Magudulela had had a fight with her boyfriend. “There was a traditional ceremony at the boyfriend’s house for his mother, who died. He had asked Nomcebo to make traditional dumplings for the ceremony. However, Nomcebo refused, saying that it was not culturally right for a girlfriend to make dumplings for such a ceremony. This angered the boyfriend and they began fighting. He assaulted her and she ran from his house to neighbours, where she hid,” said the neighbour. Magudulela hid until the evening, when she asked to be accompanied home as she had to prepare supper. “She said she would lock the doors and pretend no one was home if the boyfriend came looking for her. She left the lounge curtain open so that she would be able to see if someone was walking outside. “Later he came back, broke in and assaulted her. We found her on the floor at the doorstep of one of the outbuildings. She had been stabbed on her shoulder. There was lots of blood on the floor in the lounge. She had an open wound on her forehead. The boyfriend had arrived with two friends but after Nomcebo made it outside the house to get help, he was nowhere to be found.” The family said her body was with the pathologist yesterday and they were busy with funeral arrangements. The Mercury